.\" $OpenBSD: ASN1_buf_print.3,v 1.1 2022/12/14 20:27:28 schwarze Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2022 Ingo Schwarze <schwarze@openbsd.org>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: December 14 2022 $
.Dt ASN1_BUF_PRINT 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm ASN1_buf_print
.Nd pretty-print a byte array
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In openssl/asn1.h
.Ft int
.Fo ASN1_buf_print
.Fa "BIO *bio_out"
.Fa "const unsigned char *buf"
.Fa "size_t buflen"
.Fa "int indent"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Fn ASN1_buf_print
prints a hexadecimal representation of the first
.Fa buflen
bytes from
.Fa buf
to
.Fa bio_out .
Despite its name and the header file,
this function has nothing to do with ASN.1.
.Pp
Each byte from
.Fa buf
is represented by two lower-case hexadecimal digits.
Fifteen pairs of digits are printed per output line,
or at most fifteen on the last output line.
Every output line including the last one ends with a newline character.
Every pair except the last is followed by a colon
.Pq Sq \&: .
If
.Fa indent
is greater than zero,
every output line is indented by
.Fa indent
space characters, but not by more than 64 characters.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
.Fn ASN1_buf_print
returns 1 if successful or 0 if printing fails.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr ASN1_bn_print 3 ,
.Xr ASN1_item_print 3 ,
.Xr ASN1_STRING_print_ex 3 ,
.Xr ASN1_TIME_print 3 ,
.Xr BIO_new 3 ,
.Xr BIO_write 3
.Sh HISTORY
.Fn ASN1_buf_print
first appeared in OpenSSL 1.1.0 and has been available since
.Ox 7.3 .
