.\"	$OpenBSD: ASN1_TYPE_get.3,v 1.3 2017/01/03 20:15:47 schwarze Exp $
.\"	OpenSSL 99d63d46 Mon Jun 6 00:43:05 2016 -0400
.\"
.\" This file is a derived work.
.\" The changes are covered by the following Copyright and license:
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2017 Ingo Schwarze <schwarze@openbsd.org>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" The original file was written by Dr. Stephen Henson <steve@openssl.org>.
.\" Copyright (c) 2015, 2016 The OpenSSL Project.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
.\"    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
.\"    distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this
.\"    software must display the following acknowledgment:
.\"    "This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project
.\"    for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit. (http://www.openssl.org/)"
.\"
.\" 4. The names "OpenSSL Toolkit" and "OpenSSL Project" must not be used to
.\"    endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\"    prior written permission. For written permission, please contact
.\"    openssl-core@openssl.org.
.\"
.\" 5. Products derived from this software may not be called "OpenSSL"
.\"    nor may "OpenSSL" appear in their names without prior written
.\"    permission of the OpenSSL Project.
.\"
.\" 6. Redistributions of any form whatsoever must retain the following
.\"    acknowledgment:
.\"    "This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project
.\"    for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit (http://www.openssl.org/)"
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE OpenSSL PROJECT ``AS IS'' AND ANY
.\" EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
.\" PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE OpenSSL PROJECT OR
.\" ITS CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
.\" SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
.\" LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
.\" STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED
.\" OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: January 3 2017 $
.Dt ASN1_TYPE_GET 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm ASN1_TYPE_new ,
.Nm ASN1_TYPE_free ,
.Nm ASN1_TYPE_get ,
.Nm ASN1_TYPE_set ,
.Nm ASN1_TYPE_set1 ,
.Nm ASN1_TYPE_cmp
.Nd ASN.1 objects of arbitrary type
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In openssl/asn1.h
.Ft ASN1_TYPE *
.Fn ASN1_TYPE_new void
.Ft void
.Fn ASN1_TYPE_free "ASN1_TYPE *a"
.Ft int
.Fo ASN1_TYPE_get
.Fa "ASN1_TYPE *a"
.Fc
.Ft void
.Fo ASN1_TYPE_set
.Fa "ASN1_TYPE *a"
.Fa "int type"
.Fa "void *value"
.Fc
.Ft int
.Fo ASN1_TYPE_set1
.Fa "ASN1_TYPE *a"
.Fa "int type"
.Fa "const void *value"
.Fc
.Ft int
.Fo ASN1_TYPE_cmp
.Fa "ASN1_TYPE *a"
.Fa "ASN1_TYPE *b"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Vt ASN1_TYPE
represents the ASN.1 ANY type.
An
.Vt ASN1_TYPE
object can store an ASN.1 value of arbitrary type,
including constructed types such as a SEQUENCE.
It also remembers internally which type it currently holds.
.Pp
.Fn ASN1_TYPE_new
allocates and initializes an empty
.Vt ASN1_TYPE
object of undefined type.
.Pp
.Fn ASN1_TYPE_free
frees
.Fa a
including the value stored in it, if any.
If
.Fa a
is a
.Dv NULL
pointer, no action occurs.
.Pp
.Fn ASN1_TYPE_get
returns the type of
.Fa a ,
represented by one of the
.Dv V_ASN1_*
constants defined in
.In openssl/asn1.h .
.Pp
.Fn ASN1_TYPE_set
frees the value contained in
.Fa a ,
if any, and sets
.Fa a
to
.Fa type
and
.Fa value .
This function uses the pointer
.Fa value
internally so it must
.Sy not
be freed up after the call.
.Pp
.Fn ASN1_TYPE_set1
sets the type of
.Fa a
to
.Fa type
and its value to a copy of
.Fa value .
If copying succeeds, the previous value that was contained in
.Fa a
is freed.
If copying fails,
.Fa a
remains unchanged.
.Pp
The type and meaning of the
.Fa value
argument of
.Fn ASN1_TYPE_set
and
.Fn ASN1_TYPE_set1
is determined by the
.Fa type
argument.
If
.Fa type
is
.Dv V_ASN1_NULL ,
.Fa value
is ignored.
If
.Fa type
is
.Dv V_ASN1_BOOLEAN ,
then the boolean is set to TRUE if
.Fa value
is not
.Dv NULL .
If
.Fa type
is
.Dv V_ASN1_OBJECT ,
then
.Fa value
is an
.Vt ASN1_OBJECT
structure.
Otherwise
.Fa type
is an
.Vt ASN1_STRING
structure.
If
.Fa type
corresponds to a primitive type or a string type, then the contents
of the
.Vt ASN1_STRING
contains the content octets of the type.
If
.Fa type
corresponds to a constructed type or a tagged type
.Pq Dv V_ASN1_SEQUENCE , V_ASN1_SET , No or Dv V_ASN1_OTHER ,
then the
.Vt ASN1_STRING
contains the entire ASN.1 encoding verbatim, including tag and
length octets.
.Pp
.Fn ASN1_TYPE_cmp
checks that
.Fa a
and
.Fa b
have the same type, the same value, and are encoded in the same way.
.Pp
If the types agree and the values have the same meaning but are
encoded differently, they are considered different.
For example, a boolean value is represented
using a single content octet.
Under BER, any non-zero octet represents the TRUE value, but
.Fn ASN1_TYPE_cmp
will only report a match if the content octet is the same.
.Pp
If either or both of the arguments passed to
.Fn ASN1_TYPE_cmp
is
.Dv NULL ,
the result is a mismatch.
Technically, if both arguments are
.Dv NULL ,
the two types could be absent OPTIONAL fields and so should match,
however passing
.Dv NULL
values could also indicate a programming error (for example an
unparseable type which returns
.Dv NULL )
for types which do
.Sy not
match.
So applications should handle the case of two absent values separately.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
.Fn ASN1_TYPE_new
returns the new
.Vt ASN1_TYPE
object or
.Dv NULL
if an error occurs.
.Pp
.Fn ASN1_TYPE_get
returns the type of
.Fa a
or 0 if an error occurs.
The latter can happen if
.Fa a
does not contain a value even though its type is not
.Dv V_ASN1_NULL .
For example, it will always happen for empty objects
newly constructed with
.Fn ASN1_TYPE_new .
.Pp
.Fn ASN1_TYPE_set1
returns 1 if the copying succeeds or 0 if it fails.
.Pp
.Fn ASN1_TYPE_cmp
returns 0 for a match or non-zero for a mismatch.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr ASN1_item_free 3 ,
.Xr ASN1_STRING_dup 3 ,
.Xr d2i_ASN1_TYPE 3 ,
.Xr OBJ_dup 3
