.\" $OpenBSD: BIO_set_callback.3,v 1.7 2018/03/20 19:33:16 schwarze Exp $
.\" full merge up to: OpenSSL 99d63d46 Oct 26 13:56:48 2016 -0400
.\" selective merge up to: OpenSSL 61f805c1 Jan 16 01:01:46 2018 +0800
.\"
.\" This file is a derived work.
.\" The changes are covered by the following Copyright and license:
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2018 Ingo Schwarze <schwarze@openbsd.org>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" The original file was written by Dr. Stephen Henson <steve@openssl.org>.
.\" Copyright (c) 2000, 2016, 2017 The OpenSSL Project.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
.\"    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
.\"    distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this
.\"    software must display the following acknowledgment:
.\"    "This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project
.\"    for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit. (http://www.openssl.org/)"
.\"
.\" 4. The names "OpenSSL Toolkit" and "OpenSSL Project" must not be used to
.\"    endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\"    prior written permission. For written permission, please contact
.\"    openssl-core@openssl.org.
.\"
.\" 5. Products derived from this software may not be called "OpenSSL"
.\"    nor may "OpenSSL" appear in their names without prior written
.\"    permission of the OpenSSL Project.
.\"
.\" 6. Redistributions of any form whatsoever must retain the following
.\"    acknowledgment:
.\"    "This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project
.\"    for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit (http://www.openssl.org/)"
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE OpenSSL PROJECT ``AS IS'' AND ANY
.\" EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
.\" PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE OpenSSL PROJECT OR
.\" ITS CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
.\" SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
.\" LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
.\" STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED
.\" OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: March 20 2018 $
.Dt BIO_SET_CALLBACK 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm BIO_set_callback ,
.Nm BIO_get_callback ,
.Nm BIO_set_callback_arg ,
.Nm BIO_get_callback_arg ,
.Nm BIO_debug_callback
.Nd BIO callback functions
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In openssl/bio.h
.Ft void
.Fo BIO_set_callback
.Fa "BIO *b"
.Fa "BIO_callback_fn cb"
.Fc
.Ft BIO_callback_fn
.Fo BIO_get_callback
.Fa "BIO *b"
.Fc
.Ft void
.Fo BIO_set_callback_arg
.Fa "BIO *b"
.Fa "char *arg"
.Fc
.Ft char *
.Fo BIO_get_callback_arg
.Fa "const BIO *b"
.Fc
.Ft long
.Fo BIO_debug_callback
.Fa "BIO *bio"
.Fa "int oper"
.Fa "const char *argp"
.Fa "int argi"
.Fa "long argl"
.Fa "long ret"
.Fc
.Ft typedef long
.Fo "(*BIO_callback_fn)"
.Fa "BIO *b"
.Fa "int oper"
.Fa "const char *argp"
.Fa "int argi"
.Fa "long argl"
.Fa "long ret"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Fn BIO_set_callback
and
.Fn BIO_get_callback
set and retrieve the BIO callback.
The callback is called during most high level BIO operations.
It can be used for debugging purposes to trace operations on a BIO
or to modify its operation.
.Pp
.Fn BIO_set_callback_arg
and
.Fn BIO_get_callback_arg
set and retrieve an argument for use in the callback.
.Pp
.Fn BIO_debug_callback
is a standard debugging callback which prints
out information relating to each BIO operation.
If the callback argument is set, it is interpreted as a BIO
to send the information to, otherwise stderr is used.
.Pp
.Fn BIO_callback_fn
is the type of the callback function.
The meaning of each argument is described below.
.Pp
The BIO the callback is attached to is passed in
.Fa b .
.Pp
.Fa oper
is set to the operation being performed.
For some operations the callback is called twice,
once before and once after the actual operation.
The latter case has
.Fa oper
or'ed with
.Dv BIO_CB_RETURN .
.Pp
The meaning of the arguments
.Fa argp ,
.Fa argi
and
.Fa argl
depends on the value of
.Fa oper
(i.e. the operation being performed).
.Pp
When
.Fa oper
does not include
.Dv BIO_CB_RETURN ,
i.e. when the callback is invoked before an operation,
the value passed into the callback via
.Fa ret
is always 1.
In this case, if the callback returns a negative value, the library
aborts the requested operation and instead returns the negative
return value from the callback to the application.
If the callback returns a non-negative value, that return value is
ignored by the library, and the operation is performed normally.
.Pp
When
.Fa oper
includes
.Dv BIO_CB_RETURN ,
i.e. when the callback is invoked after an operation,
the value passed into the callback via
.Fa ret
is the return value that the operation would return to the application
if no callback were present.
When a callback is present, the operation only passes this value
to the callback and instead of it returns the return value of the
callback to the application.
.Pp
The callback should normally simply return
.Fa ret
when it has finished processing, unless it specifically wishes to
abort the operation or to modify the value returned to the application.
.Ss Callback operations
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fn BIO_free b
.Fn callback b BIO_CB_FREE NULL 0L 0L 1L
is called before the free operation.
.It Fn BIO_read b out outl
.Fn callback b BIO_CB_READ out outl 0L 1L
is called before the read and
.Fn callback b BIO_CB_READ|BIO_CB_RETURN out outl 0L ret
after.
.It Fn BIO_write b in inl
.Fn callback b BIO_CB_WRITE in inl 0L 1L
is called before the write and
.Fn callback b BIO_CB_WRITE|BIO_CB_RETURN in inl 0L ret
after.
.It Fn BIO_gets b out outl
.Fn callback b BIO_CB_GETS out outl 0L 1L
is called before the operation and
.Fn callback b BIO_CB_GETS|BIO_CB_RETURN out outl 0L ret
after.
.It Fn BIO_puts b in
.Fn callback b BIO_CB_WRITE in 0 0L 1L
is called before the operation and
.Fn callback b BIO_CB_WRITE|BIO_CB_RETURN in 0 0L ret
after.
.It Fn BIO_ctrl b oper larg parg
.Fn callback b BIO_CB_CTRL parg oper larg 1L
is called before the call and
.Fn callback b BIO_CB_CTRL|BIO_CB_RETURN parg oper larg ret
after.
.El
.Sh RETURN VALUES
.Fn BIO_get_callback
returns a pointer to the function
.Fa cb
previously installed with
.Fn BIO_set_callback ,
or
.Dv NULL
if no callback was installed.
.Pp
.Fn BIO_get_callback_arg
returns a pointer to the
.Fa arg
previously set with
.Fn BIO_set_callback_arg ,
or
.Dv NULL
if no such argument was set.
.Pp
.Fn BIO_debug_callback
returns
.Fa ret
if the bit
.Dv BIO_CB_RETURN
is set in
.Fa cmd ,
or 1 otherwise.
.Sh EXAMPLES
The
.Fn BIO_debug_callback
function is a good example.
Its source is in the file
.Pa crypto/bio/bio_cb.c .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr BIO_new 3
.Sh HISTORY
These functions appeared in SSLeay 0.8.1b or earlier
and have been available since
.Ox 2.4 .
