.\"	$OpenBSD: BIO_s_fd.3,v 1.7 2018/03/20 19:33:16 schwarze Exp $
.\"	OpenSSL 9b86974e Aug 17 15:21:33 2015 -0400
.\"
.\" This file was written by Dr. Stephen Henson <steve@openssl.org>.
.\" Copyright (c) 2000 The OpenSSL Project.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
.\"    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
.\"    distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this
.\"    software must display the following acknowledgment:
.\"    "This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project
.\"    for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit. (http://www.openssl.org/)"
.\"
.\" 4. The names "OpenSSL Toolkit" and "OpenSSL Project" must not be used to
.\"    endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\"    prior written permission. For written permission, please contact
.\"    openssl-core@openssl.org.
.\"
.\" 5. Products derived from this software may not be called "OpenSSL"
.\"    nor may "OpenSSL" appear in their names without prior written
.\"    permission of the OpenSSL Project.
.\"
.\" 6. Redistributions of any form whatsoever must retain the following
.\"    acknowledgment:
.\"    "This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project
.\"    for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit (http://www.openssl.org/)"
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE OpenSSL PROJECT ``AS IS'' AND ANY
.\" EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
.\" PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE OpenSSL PROJECT OR
.\" ITS CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
.\" SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
.\" LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
.\" STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED
.\" OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: March 20 2018 $
.Dt BIO_S_FD 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm BIO_s_fd ,
.Nm BIO_set_fd ,
.Nm BIO_get_fd ,
.Nm BIO_new_fd
.Nd file descriptor BIO
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In openssl/bio.h
.Ft BIO_METHOD *
.Fo BIO_s_fd
.Fa "void"
.Fc
.Ft long
.Fo BIO_set_fd
.Fa "BIO *b"
.Fa "int fd"
.Fa "long close_flag"
.Fc
.Ft long
.Fo BIO_get_fd
.Fa "BIO *b"
.Fa "int *c"
.Fc
.Ft BIO *
.Fo BIO_new_fd
.Fa "int fd"
.Fa "int close_flag"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Fn BIO_s_fd
returns the file descriptor BIO method.
This is a wrapper around the platform's file descriptor routines such as
.Xr read 2
and
.Xr write 2 .
.Pp
.Xr BIO_read 3
and
.Xr BIO_write 3
read or write the underlying descriptor.
.Xr BIO_puts 3
is supported but
.Xr BIO_gets 3
is not.
.Pp
If the close flag is set,
.Xr close 2
is called on the underlying file descriptor when the
.Vt BIO
is freed.
.Pp
.Xr BIO_reset 3
attempts to set the file pointer to the start of the file using
.Fn lseek fd 0 0 .
.Pp
.Xr BIO_seek 3
sets the file pointer to position
.Fa ofs
from start of file using
.Fn lseek fd ofs 0 .
.Pp
.Xr BIO_tell 3
returns the current file position by calling
.Fn lseek fd 0 1 .
.Pp
.Fn BIO_set_fd
sets the file descriptor of
.Vt BIO
.Fa b
to
.Fa fd
and the close flag to
.Fa close_flag .
It is currently implemented as a macro.
.Pp
.Fn BIO_get_fd
places the file descriptor in
.Fa c
if it is not
.Dv NULL
and also returns the file descriptor.
It is currently implemented as a macro.
.Pp
.Fn BIO_new_fd
returns a file descriptor BIO using
.Fa fd
and
.Fa close_flag .
.Pp
The behaviour of
.Xr BIO_read 3
and
.Xr BIO_write 3
depends on the behavior of the platform's
.Xr read 2
and
.Xr write 2
calls on the descriptor.
If the underlying file descriptor is in a non-blocking mode,
then the BIO will behave in the manner described in the
.Xr BIO_read 3
and
.Xr BIO_should_retry 3
manual pages.
.Pp
File descriptor BIOs should not be used for socket I/O.
Use socket BIOs instead.
.Pp
.Fn BIO_set_fd
and
.Fn BIO_get_fd
are implemented as macros.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
.Fn BIO_s_fd
returns the file descriptor BIO method.
.Pp
.Fn BIO_set_fd
always returns 1.
.Pp
.Fn BIO_get_fd
returns the file descriptor or -1 if the
.Vt BIO
has not been initialized.
.Pp
.Fn BIO_new_fd
returns the newly allocated
.Vt BIO
or
.Dv NULL
if an error occurred.
.Sh EXAMPLES
This is a file descriptor BIO version of "Hello World":
.Bd -literal -offset indent
BIO *out;
out = BIO_new_fd(fileno(stdout), BIO_NOCLOSE);
BIO_printf(out, "Hello World\en");
BIO_free(out);
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr BIO_new 3 ,
.Xr BIO_read 3 ,
.Xr BIO_s_socket 3 ,
.Xr BIO_seek 3
.Sh HISTORY
These functions appeared in SSLeay 0.8.1b or earlier
and have been available since
.Ox 2.4 .
