.\" $OpenBSD: CMS_get0_type.3,v 1.4 2019/08/11 12:46:38 schwarze Exp $
.\" full merge up to: OpenSSL 72a7a702 Feb 26 14:05:09 2019 +0000
.\"
.\" This file was written by Dr. Stephen Henson <steve@openssl.org>.
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, 2015 The OpenSSL Project.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
.\"    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
.\"    distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this
.\"    software must display the following acknowledgment:
.\"    "This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project
.\"    for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit. (http://www.openssl.org/)"
.\"
.\" 4. The names "OpenSSL Toolkit" and "OpenSSL Project" must not be used to
.\"    endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\"    prior written permission. For written permission, please contact
.\"    openssl-core@openssl.org.
.\"
.\" 5. Products derived from this software may not be called "OpenSSL"
.\"    nor may "OpenSSL" appear in their names without prior written
.\"    permission of the OpenSSL Project.
.\"
.\" 6. Redistributions of any form whatsoever must retain the following
.\"    acknowledgment:
.\"    "This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project
.\"    for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit (http://www.openssl.org/)"
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE OpenSSL PROJECT ``AS IS'' AND ANY
.\" EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
.\" PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE OpenSSL PROJECT OR
.\" ITS CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
.\" SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
.\" LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
.\" STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED
.\" OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: August 11 2019 $
.Dt CMS_GET0_TYPE 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm CMS_get0_type ,
.Nm CMS_set1_eContentType ,
.Nm CMS_get0_eContentType ,
.Nm CMS_get0_content
.Nd get and set CMS content types and content
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In openssl/cms.h
.Ft const ASN1_OBJECT *
.Fo CMS_get0_type
.Fa "const CMS_ContentInfo *cms"
.Fc
.Ft int
.Fo CMS_set1_eContentType
.Fa "CMS_ContentInfo *cms"
.Fa "const ASN1_OBJECT *oid"
.Fc
.Ft const ASN1_OBJECT *
.Fo CMS_get0_eContentType
.Fa "CMS_ContentInfo *cms"
.Fc
.Ft ASN1_OCTET_STRING **
.Fo CMS_get0_content
.Fa "CMS_ContentInfo *cms"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Fn CMS_get0_type
returns the content type of a
.Vt CMS_ContentInfo
structure as an
.Vt ASN1_OBJECT
pointer.
An application can then decide how to process the
.Vt CMS_ContentInfo
structure based on this value.
.Pp
.Fn CMS_set1_eContentType
sets the embedded content type of a
.Vt CMS_ContentInfo
structure.
It should be called with CMS functions (such as
.Xr CMS_sign 3 ,
.Xr CMS_encrypt 3 )
with the
.Dv CMS_PARTIAL
flag and
.Em before
the structure is finalised, otherwise the results are undefined.
.Pp
.Fn CMS_get0_eContentType
returns a pointer to the embedded content type.
.Pp
.Fn CMS_get0_content
returns a pointer to the
.Vt ASN1_OCTET_STRING
pointer containing the embedded content.
.Pp
As the
.Sq 0
in the function names imply,
.Fn CMS_get0_type ,
.Fn CMS_get0_eContentType ,
and
.Fn CMS_get0_content
return internal pointers which should
.Em not
be freed up.
.Fn CMS_set1_eContentType
copies the supplied OID and it
.Em should
be freed up after use.
.Pp
The
.Vt ASN1_OBJECT
values returned can be converted to an integer NID value using
.Xr OBJ_obj2nid 3 .
For the currently supported content types the following values are
returned:
.Dv NID_pkcs7_data ,
.Dv NID_pkcs7_signed ,
.Dv NID_pkcs7_digest ,
.Dv NID_id_smime_ct_compressedData ,
.Dv NID_pkcs7_encrypted ,
.Dv NID_pkcs7_enveloped .
.Pp
The return value of
.Fn CMS_get0_content
is a pointer to the
.Vt ASN1_OCTET_STRING
content pointer.
That means that for example after
.Pp
.Dl ASN1_OCTET_STRING **pconf = CMS_get0_content(cms);
.Pp
.Pf * Va pconf
could be
.Dv NULL
if there is no embedded content.
Applications can access, modify or create the embedded content in a
.Vt CMS_ContentInfo
structure using this function.
Applications usually will not need to modify the embedded content as it
is normally set by higher level functions.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
.Fn CMS_get0_type
and
.Fn CMS_get0_eContentType
return an
.Vt ASN1_OBJECT
structure.
.Pp
.Fn CMS_set1_eContentType
returns 1 for success or 0 if an error occurred.
The error can be obtained from
.Xr ERR_get_error 3 .
.Sh HISTORY
These functions first appeared in OpenSSL 0.9.8h
and have been available since
.Ox 6.6 .
