.\" $OpenBSD: CMS_add1_recipient_cert.3,v 1.4 2019/08/11 12:46:38 schwarze Exp $
.\" full merge up to: OpenSSL e9b77246 Jan 20 19:58:49 2017 +0100
.\"
.\" This file was written by Dr. Stephen Henson <steve@openssl.org>.
.\" Copyright (c) 2008 The OpenSSL Project.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
.\"    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
.\"    distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this
.\"    software must display the following acknowledgment:
.\"    "This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project
.\"    for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit. (http://www.openssl.org/)"
.\"
.\" 4. The names "OpenSSL Toolkit" and "OpenSSL Project" must not be used to
.\"    endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\"    prior written permission. For written permission, please contact
.\"    openssl-core@openssl.org.
.\"
.\" 5. Products derived from this software may not be called "OpenSSL"
.\"    nor may "OpenSSL" appear in their names without prior written
.\"    permission of the OpenSSL Project.
.\"
.\" 6. Redistributions of any form whatsoever must retain the following
.\"    acknowledgment:
.\"    "This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project
.\"    for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit (http://www.openssl.org/)"
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE OpenSSL PROJECT ``AS IS'' AND ANY
.\" EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
.\" PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE OpenSSL PROJECT OR
.\" ITS CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
.\" SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
.\" LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
.\" STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED
.\" OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: August 11 2019 $
.Dt CMS_ADD1_RECIPIENT_CERT 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm CMS_add1_recipient_cert ,
.Nm CMS_add0_recipient_key
.Nd add recipients to a CMS enveloped data structure
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In openssl/cms.h
.Ft CMS_RecipientInfo *
.Fo CMS_add1_recipient_cert
.Fa "CMS_ContentInfo *cms"
.Fa "X509 *recip"
.Fa "unsigned int flags"
.Fc
.Ft CMS_RecipientInfo *
.Fo CMS_add0_recipient_key
.Fa "CMS_ContentInfo *cms"
.Fa "int nid"
.Fa "unsigned char *key"
.Fa "size_t keylen"
.Fa "unsigned char *id"
.Fa "size_t idlen"
.Fa "ASN1_GENERALIZEDTIME *date"
.Fa "ASN1_OBJECT *otherTypeId"
.Fa "ASN1_TYPE *otherType"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Fn CMS_add1_recipient_cert
adds the recipient
.Fa recip
to the
.Vt CMS_ContentInfo
enveloped data structure
.Fa cms
as a KeyTransRecipientInfo structure.
.Pp
.Fn CMS_add0_recipient_key
adds the symmetric key
.Fa key
of length
.Fa keylen
using the wrapping algorithm
.Fa nid ,
the identifier
.Fa id
of length
.Fa idlen ,
and the optional values
.Fa date ,
.Fa otherTypeId
and
.Fa otherType
to the
.Vt CMS_ContentInfo
enveloped data structure
.Fa cms
as a KEKRecipientInfo structure.
.Pp
The
.Vt CMS_ContentInfo
structure should be obtained from an initial call to
.Xr CMS_encrypt 3
with the flag
.Dv CMS_PARTIAL
set.
.Pp
The main purpose of this function is to provide finer control over a CMS
enveloped data structure where the simpler
.Xr CMS_encrypt 3
function defaults are not appropriate,
for example if one or more KEKRecipientInfo structures need to be added.
New attributes can also be added using the returned
.Vt CMS_RecipientInfo
structure and the CMS attribute utility functions.
.Pp
By default, recipient certificates are identified using issuer
name and serial number.
If the flag
.Dv CMS_USE_KEYID
is set, it will use the subject key identifier value instead.
An error occurs if all recipient certificates do not have a subject key
identifier extension.
.Pp
Currently only AES based key wrapping algorithms are supported for
.Fa nid ,
specifically
.Dv NID_id_aes128_wrap ,
.Dv NID_id_aes192_wrap ,
and
.Dv NID_id_aes256_wrap .
If
.Fa nid
is set to
.Dv NID_undef ,
then an AES wrap algorithm will be used consistent with
.Fa keylen .
.Sh RETURN VALUES
.Fn CMS_add1_recipient_cert
and
.Fn CMS_add0_recipient_key
return an internal pointer to the
.Vt CMS_RecipientInfo
structure just added or
.Dv NULL
if an error occurs.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr CMS_decrypt 3 ,
.Xr CMS_final 3 ,
.Xr ERR_get_error 3
.Sh HISTORY
.Fn CMS_add1_recipient_cert
and
.Fn CMS_add0_recipient_key
first appeared in OpenSSL 0.9.8h
and have been available since
.Ox 6.6 .
