.\"	$OpenBSD: crypto.3,v 1.20 2019/06/06 01:06:59 schwarze Exp $
.\"	OpenSSL a9c85cea Nov 11 09:33:55 2016 +0100
.\"
.\" This file was written by Ulf Moeller <ulf@openssl.org> and
.\" Dr. Stephen Henson <steve@openssl.org>.
.\" Copyright (c) 2000, 2002 The OpenSSL Project.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
.\"    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
.\"    distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this
.\"    software must display the following acknowledgment:
.\"    "This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project
.\"    for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit. (http://www.openssl.org/)"
.\"
.\" 4. The names "OpenSSL Toolkit" and "OpenSSL Project" must not be used to
.\"    endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\"    prior written permission. For written permission, please contact
.\"    openssl-core@openssl.org.
.\"
.\" 5. Products derived from this software may not be called "OpenSSL"
.\"    nor may "OpenSSL" appear in their names without prior written
.\"    permission of the OpenSSL Project.
.\"
.\" 6. Redistributions of any form whatsoever must retain the following
.\"    acknowledgment:
.\"    "This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project
.\"    for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit (http://www.openssl.org/)"
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE OpenSSL PROJECT ``AS IS'' AND ANY
.\" EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
.\" PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE OpenSSL PROJECT OR
.\" ITS CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
.\" SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
.\" LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
.\" STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED
.\" OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: June 6 2019 $
.Dt CRYPTO 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm crypto
.Nd OpenSSL cryptographic library
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The OpenSSL crypto library implements a wide range of cryptographic
algorithms used in various Internet standards.
The services provided by this library are used by the OpenSSL
implementations of TLS and S/MIME, and they have also been used to
implement SSH, OpenPGP, and other cryptographic standards.
.Pp
.Sy Symmetric ciphers
including AES, Blowfish, CAST, Chacha20, IDEA, DES, RC2, and RC4
are provided by the generic interface
.Xr EVP_EncryptInit 3 .
Low-level stand-alone interfaces include
.Xr BF_set_key 3 ,
.Xr DES_set_key 3 ,
and
.Xr RC4 3 .
.Pp
.Sy Public key cryptography and key agreement
are provided by
.Xr DH_new 3 ,
.Xr X25519 3 ,
.Xr DSA_new 3 ,
.Xr ECDSA_SIG_new 3 ,
.Xr RSA_new 3 ,
and
.Xr EVP_PKEY_new 3 .
.Pp
.Sy Certificates
are handled by
.Xr X509_new 3
and
.Xr X509v3_add_ext 3 .
.Pp
.Sy Authentication codes and hash functions
offered include
.Xr EVP_DigestInit 3 ,
.Xr HMAC 3 ,
.Xr MD4 3 ,
.Xr MD5 3 ,
.Xr RIPEMD160 3 ,
.Xr SHA1 3 ,
and
.Xr SHA256 3 .
.Pp
.Sy Input, output, and data encoding
facilities include
.Xr ASN1_TYPE_get 3 ,
.Xr BIO_new 3 ,
.Xr evp 3 ,
.Xr EVP_EncodeInit 3 ,
.Xr PEM_read 3 ,
.Xr PKCS7_encrypt 3 ,
.Xr PKCS7_sign 3 ,
.Xr PKCS12_create 3 ,
and
.Xr SMIME_write_PKCS7 3 .
.Pp
.Sy Auxiliary features include:
.Bl -dash -compact
.It
configuration file handling: see
.Xr OPENSSL_config 3
.It
error reporting: see
.Xr ERR 3
.It
.Xr OCSP_REQUEST_new 3
.It
.Xr UI_new 3
.El
.Pp
.Sy Internal utilities
include
.Xr BIO_f_buffer 3 ,
.Xr BN_new 3 ,
.Xr EC_GROUP_new 3 ,
.Xr lh_new 3 ,
and
.Xr STACK_OF 3 .
.Pp
Some of the newer functions follow a naming convention using the numbers
.Sq 0
and
.Sq 1 .
For example consider the names of these functions:
.Pp
.Ft int
.Fo X509_CRL_add0_revoked
.Fa "X509_CRL *crl"
.Fa "X509_REVOKED *rev"
.Fc
.br
.Ft int
.Fo X509_add1_trust_object
.Fa "X509 *x"
.Fa "ASN1_OBJECT *obj"
.Fc
.Pp
The
.Sq 0
version uses the supplied structure pointer directly in the parent and
it will be freed up when the parent is freed.
In the above example
.Fa crl
would be freed but
.Fa rev
would not.
.Pp
The
.Sq 1
function uses a copy of the supplied structure pointer (or in some cases
increases its link count) in the parent and so both
.Pf ( Fa x
and
.Fa obj
above) should be freed up.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr openssl 1 ,
.Xr ssl 3
