.\"	$OpenBSD: des_read_pw.3,v 1.7 2018/03/20 22:06:59 schwarze Exp $
.\"	OpenSSL doc/crypto/ui_compat.pod May 14 11:28:00 2006 +0000
.\"	OpenSSL doc/crypto/des.pod 2a9aca32 Oct 25 08:44:10 2001 +0000
.\"
.\" This file was written by Ulf Moeller <ulf@openssl.org> and
.\" Richard Levitte <levitte@openssl.org>.
.\" Copyright (c) 2000, 2001 The OpenSSL Project.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
.\"    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
.\"    distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this
.\"    software must display the following acknowledgment:
.\"    "This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project
.\"    for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit. (http://www.openssl.org/)"
.\"
.\" 4. The names "OpenSSL Toolkit" and "OpenSSL Project" must not be used to
.\"    endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\"    prior written permission. For written permission, please contact
.\"    openssl-core@openssl.org.
.\"
.\" 5. Products derived from this software may not be called "OpenSSL"
.\"    nor may "OpenSSL" appear in their names without prior written
.\"    permission of the OpenSSL Project.
.\"
.\" 6. Redistributions of any form whatsoever must retain the following
.\"    acknowledgment:
.\"    "This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project
.\"    for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit (http://www.openssl.org/)"
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE OpenSSL PROJECT ``AS IS'' AND ANY
.\" EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
.\" PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE OpenSSL PROJECT OR
.\" ITS CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
.\" SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
.\" LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
.\" STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED
.\" OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: March 20 2018 $
.Dt DES_READ_PW 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm des_read_pw ,
.Nm des_read_pw_string ,
.Nm EVP_read_pw_string
.Nd compatibility user interface functions
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In openssl/ui_compat.h
.Ft int
.Fo des_read_pw
.Fa "char *buf"
.Fa "char *buff"
.Fa "int length"
.Fa "const char *prompt"
.Fa "int verify"
.Fc
.Ft int
.Fo des_read_pw_string
.Fa "char *buf"
.Fa "int length"
.Fa "const char *prompt"
.Fa "int verify"
.Fc
.In openssl/evp.h
.Ft int
.Fo EVP_read_pw_string
.Fa "char *buf"
.Fa "int length"
.Fa "const char *prompt"
.Fa "int verify"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The DES library contained a few routines to prompt for passwords.
These aren't necessarily dependent on DES, and have therefore become
part of the UI compatibility library.
.Pp
.Fn des_read_pw
writes the string specified by
.Fa prompt
to standard output, turns echo off, and reads an input string from the
terminal.
The string is returned in
.Fa buf ,
which must have space for at least
.Fa length
bytes.
If
.Fa verify
is set, the user is asked for the password twice and unless the two
copies match, an error is returned.
The second password is stored in
.Fa buff ,
which must therefore also be at least
.Fa length
bytes.
A return code of -1 indicates a system error, 1 failure due to use
interaction, and 0 is success.
.Pp
.Fn des_read_pw_string
is a variant of
.Fn des_read_pw
that provides a buffer if
.Fa verify
is set.
It is available in the MIT Kerberos library as well.
If
.Fa length
exceeds
.Dv BUFSIZ ,
.Fn des_read_pw_string
uses
.Dv BUFSIZ .
.Pp
.Fn EVP_read_pw_string
is functionally similar to
.Fn des_read_pw_string .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr UI_new 3
.Sh HISTORY
These functions appeared in SSLeay 0.8.1b or earlier
and have been available since
.Ox 2.4 .
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Richard Levitte Aq Mt richard@levitte.org
for the OpenSSL project.
