.\" $OpenBSD: DH_get0_pqg.3,v 1.4 2018/03/23 23:18:17 schwarze Exp $
.\" selective merge up to: OpenSSL 7966101e Sep 18 11:58:24 2017 -0400
.\"
.\" This file was written by Matt Caswell <matt@openssl.org>.
.\" Copyright (c) 2016 The OpenSSL Project.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
.\"    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
.\"    distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this
.\"    software must display the following acknowledgment:
.\"    "This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project
.\"    for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit. (http://www.openssl.org/)"
.\"
.\" 4. The names "OpenSSL Toolkit" and "OpenSSL Project" must not be used to
.\"    endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\"    prior written permission. For written permission, please contact
.\"    openssl-core@openssl.org.
.\"
.\" 5. Products derived from this software may not be called "OpenSSL"
.\"    nor may "OpenSSL" appear in their names without prior written
.\"    permission of the OpenSSL Project.
.\"
.\" 6. Redistributions of any form whatsoever must retain the following
.\"    acknowledgment:
.\"    "This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project
.\"    for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit (http://www.openssl.org/)"
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE OpenSSL PROJECT ``AS IS'' AND ANY
.\" EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
.\" PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE OpenSSL PROJECT OR
.\" ITS CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
.\" SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
.\" LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
.\" STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED
.\" OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: March 23 2018 $
.Dt DH_GET0_PQG 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm DH_get0_pqg ,
.Nm DH_set0_pqg ,
.Nm DH_get0_key ,
.Nm DH_set0_key ,
.Nm DH_clear_flags ,
.Nm DH_test_flags ,
.Nm DH_set_flags ,
.Nm DH_get0_engine ,
.Nm DH_set_length
.Nd get data from and set data in a DH object
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In openssl/dh.h
.Ft void
.Fo DH_get0_pqg
.Fa "const DH *dh"
.Fa "const BIGNUM **p"
.Fa "const BIGNUM **q"
.Fa "const BIGNUM **g"
.Fc
.Ft int
.Fo DH_set0_pqg
.Fa "DH *dh"
.Fa "BIGNUM *p"
.Fa "BIGNUM *q"
.Fa "BIGNUM *g"
.Fc
.Ft void
.Fo DH_get0_key
.Fa "const DH *dh"
.Fa "const BIGNUM **pub_key"
.Fa "const BIGNUM **priv_key"
.Fc
.Ft int
.Fo DH_set0_key
.Fa "DH *dh"
.Fa "BIGNUM *pub_key"
.Fa "BIGNUM *priv_key"
.Fc
.Ft void
.Fo DH_clear_flags
.Fa "DH *dh"
.Fa "int flags"
.Fc
.Ft int
.Fo DH_test_flags
.Fa "const DH *dh"
.Fa "int flags"
.Fc
.Ft void
.Fo DH_set_flags
.Fa "DH *dh"
.Fa "int flags"
.Fc
.Ft ENGINE *
.Fo DH_get0_engine
.Fa "DH *d"
.Fc
.Ft int
.Fo DH_set_length
.Fa "DH *dh"
.Fa "long length"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
A
.Vt DH
object contains the parameters
.Fa p ,
.Fa g ,
and optionally
.Fa q .
It also contains a public key
.Fa pub_key
and an optional private key
.Fa priv_key .
.Pp
The
.Fa p ,
.Fa q ,
and
.Fa g
parameters can be obtained by calling
.Fn DH_get0_pqg .
If the parameters have not yet been set, then
.Pf * Fa p ,
.Pf * Fa q ,
and
.Pf * Fa g
are set to
.Dv NULL .
Otherwise, they are set to pointers to the internal representations
of the values that should not be freed by the application.
.Pp
The
.Fa p ,
.Fa q ,
and
.Fa g
values can be set by calling
.Fn DH_set0_pqg .
Calling this function transfers the memory management of the values to
.Fa dh ,
and therefore they should not be freed by the caller.
The
.Fa q
argument may be
.Dv NULL .
.Pp
The
.Fn DH_get0_key
function stores pointers to the internal representations
of the public key in
.Pf * Fa pub_key
and to the private key in
.Pf * Fa priv_key .
Either may be
.Dv NULL
if it has not yet been set.
If the private key has been set, then the public key must be.
.Pp
The public and private key values can be set using
.Fn DH_set0_key .
Either parameter may be
.Dv NULL ,
which means the corresponding
.Vt DH
field is left untouched.
This function transfers the memory management of the key values to
.Fa dh ,
and therefore they should not be freed by the caller.
.Pp
Values retrieved with
.Fn DH_get0_pqg
and
.Fn DH_get0_key
are owned by the
.Vt DH
object and may therefore not be passed to
.Fn DH_set0_pqg
or
.Fn DH_set0_key .
If needed, duplicate the received values using
.Xr BN_dup 3
and pass the duplicates.
.Pp
.Fn DH_clear_flags
clears the specified
.Fa flags
in
.Fa dh .
.Fn DH_test_flags
tests the
.Fa flags
in
.Fa dh .
.Fn DH_set_flags
sets the
.Fa flags
in
.Fa dh ;
any flags already set remain set.
For all three functions, multiple flags can be passed in one call,
OR'ed together bitwise.
.Pp
.Fn DH_set_length
sets the optional length attribute of
.Fa dh ,
indicating the length of the secret exponent (private key) in bits.
If the length attribute is non-zero, it is used, otherwise it is ignored.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
.Fn DH_set0_pqg ,
.Fn DH_set0_key ,
and
.Fn DH_set_length
return 1 on success or 0 on failure.
.Pp
.Fn DH_test_flags
return those of the given
.Fa flags
currently set in
.Fa dh
or 0 if none of the given
.Fa flags
are set.
.Pp
.Fn DH_get0_engine
returns a pointer to the
.Vt ENGINE
used by the
.Vt DH
object
.Fa dh ,
or
.Dv NULL
if no engine was set for this object.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr DH_generate_key 3 ,
.Xr DH_generate_parameters 3 ,
.Xr DH_new 3 ,
.Xr DH_size 3 ,
.Xr DHparams_print 3
.Sh HISTORY
These functions first appeared in OpenSSL 1.1.0
and have been available since
.Ox 6.3 .
