.\" $OpenBSD: ENGINE_new.3,v 1.3 2018/04/18 03:39:22 schwarze Exp $
.\" content checked up to:
.\" OpenSSL ENGINE_add 1f13ad31 Dec 25 17:50:39 2017 +0800
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2018 Ingo Schwarze <schwarze@openbsd.org>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: April 18 2018 $
.Dt ENGINE_NEW 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm ENGINE_new ,
.Nm ENGINE_up_ref ,
.Nm ENGINE_free ,
.Nm ENGINE_set_destroy_function ,
.Nm ENGINE_get_destroy_function
.Nd create and destroy ENGINE objects
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In openssl/engine.h
.Ft ENGINE *
.Fn ENGINE_new void
.Ft int
.Fo ENGINE_up_ref
.Fa "ENGINE *e"
.Fc
.Ft int
.Fo ENGINE_free
.Fa "ENGINE *e"
.Fc
.Ft typedef int
.Fo (*ENGINE_GEN_INT_FUNC_PTR)
.Fa "ENGINE *e"
.Fc
.Ft int
.Fo ENGINE_set_destroy_function
.Fa "ENGINE *e"
.Fa "ENGINE_GEN_INT_FUNC_PTR destroy_f"
.Fc
.Ft ENGINE_GEN_INT_FUNC_PTR
.Fo ENGINE_get_destroy_function
.Fa "const ENGINE *e"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Vt ENGINE
objects can be used to provide alternative implementations of
cryptographic algorithms, to support additional algorithms, to
support cryptographic hardware, and to switch among alternative
implementations of algorithms at run time.
LibreSSL generally avoids engines and prefers providing
cryptographic functionality in the crypto library itself.
.Pp
.Fn ENGINE_new
allocates and initializes an empty
.Vt ENGINE
object and sets its structural reference count to 1
and its functional reference count to 0.
For more information about the functional reference count, see the
.Xr ENGINE_init 3
manual page.
.Pp
Many functions increment the structural reference count by 1
when successful.
Some of them, including
.Xr ENGINE_get_first 3 ,
.Xr ENGINE_get_last 3 ,
.Xr ENGINE_get_next 3 ,
.Xr ENGINE_get_prev 3 ,
and
.Xr ENGINE_by_id 3 ,
do so because they return a structural reference to the user.
Other functions, including
.Xr ENGINE_add 3 ,
.Xr ENGINE_init 3 ,
.Xr ENGINE_get_cipher_engine 3 ,
.Xr ENGINE_get_digest_engine 3 ,
and the
.Xr ENGINE_get_default_RSA 3
and
.Xr ENGINE_set_default 3
families of functions
do so when they store a structural refence internally.
.Pp
.Fn ENGINE_up_ref
explicitly increment the structural reference count by 1.
.Pp
.Fn ENGINE_free
decrements the structural reference count by 1,
and if it reaches 0, the optional
.Fa destroy_f
previously installed with
.Fn ENGINE_set_destroy_function
is called, if one is installed, and both the memory used internally by
.Fa e
and
.Fa e
itself are freed.
If
.Fa e
is a
.Dv NULL
pointer, no action occurs.
.Pp
Many functions internally call the equivalent of
.Fn ENGINE_free .
Some of them, including
.Xr ENGINE_get_next 3
and
.Xr ENGINE_get_prev 3 ,
thus invalidate the structural reference passed in by the user.
Other functions, including
.Xr ENGINE_finish 3 ,
.Xr ENGINE_remove 3 ,
and the
.Xr ENGINE_set_default 3
family of functions
do so when an internally stored structural reference is no longer needed.
.Pp
.Fn ENGINE_set_destroy_function
installs a callback function that will be called by
.Fn ENGINE_free ,
but only when
.Fa e
actually gets destroyed,
not when only its reference count gets decremented.
The value returned from the
.Fa destroy_f
will be ignored.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
.Fn ENGINE_new
returns a structural reference to the new
.Vt ENGINE
object or
.Dv NULL
if an error occurs.
.Pp
.Fn ENGINE_up_ref
returns 0 if
.Fa e
is
.Dv NULL
and 1 otherwise.
.Pp
.Fn ENGINE_free
and
.Fn ENGINE_set_destroy_function
always return 1.
.Pp
.Fn ENGINE_get_destroy_function
returns a function pointer to the callback, or
.Dv NULL
if none is installed.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr ENGINE_add 3 ,
.Xr ENGINE_ctrl 3 ,
.Xr ENGINE_get_default_RSA 3 ,
.Xr ENGINE_init 3 ,
.Xr ENGINE_register_all_RSA 3 ,
.Xr ENGINE_register_RSA 3 ,
.Xr ENGINE_set_default 3 ,
.Xr ENGINE_set_flags 3 ,
.Xr ENGINE_set_RSA 3 ,
.Xr ENGINE_unregister_RSA 3
.Sh HISTORY
.Fn ENGINE_new
and
.Fn ENGINE_free
first appeared in OpenSSL 0.9.7 and have been available since
.Ox 2.9 .
.Pp
.Fn ENGINE_set_destroy_function
and
.Fn ENGINE_get_destroy_function
first appeared in OpenSSL 0.9.7 and have been available since
.Ox 3.2 .
.Pp
.Fn ENGINE_up_ref
first appeared in OpenSSL 0.9.7 and has been available since
.Ox 3.4 .
