.\" $OpenBSD: EVP_PKEY_new.3,v 1.9 2018/12/22 23:19:53 schwarze Exp $
.\" full merge up to: OpenSSL 99d63d46 Oct 26 13:56:48 2016 -0400
.\" selective merge up to: OpenSSL df75c2bf Dec 9 01:02:36 2018 +0100
.\"
.\" This file was written by Dr. Stephen Henson <steve@openssl.org>
.\" and Matt Caswell <matt@openssl.org>.
.\" Copyright (c) 2002, 2018 The OpenSSL Project.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
.\"    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
.\"    distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this
.\"    software must display the following acknowledgment:
.\"    "This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project
.\"    for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit. (http://www.openssl.org/)"
.\"
.\" 4. The names "OpenSSL Toolkit" and "OpenSSL Project" must not be used to
.\"    endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\"    prior written permission. For written permission, please contact
.\"    openssl-core@openssl.org.
.\"
.\" 5. Products derived from this software may not be called "OpenSSL"
.\"    nor may "OpenSSL" appear in their names without prior written
.\"    permission of the OpenSSL Project.
.\"
.\" 6. Redistributions of any form whatsoever must retain the following
.\"    acknowledgment:
.\"    "This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project
.\"    for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit (http://www.openssl.org/)"
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE OpenSSL PROJECT ``AS IS'' AND ANY
.\" EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
.\" PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE OpenSSL PROJECT OR
.\" ITS CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
.\" SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
.\" LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
.\" STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED
.\" OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: December 22 2018 $
.Dt EVP_PKEY_NEW 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm EVP_PKEY_new ,
.Nm EVP_PKEY_up_ref ,
.Nm EVP_PKEY_free ,
.Nm EVP_PKEY_new_mac_key
.Nd private key allocation functions
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In openssl/evp.h
.Ft EVP_PKEY *
.Fn EVP_PKEY_new void
.Ft int
.Fo EVP_PKEY_up_ref
.Fa "EVP_PKEY *key"
.Fc
.Ft void
.Fo EVP_PKEY_free
.Fa "EVP_PKEY *key"
.Fc
.Ft EVP_PKEY *
.Fo EVP_PKEY_new_mac_key
.Fa "int type"
.Fa "ENGINE *e"
.Fa "const unsigned char *key"
.Fa "int keylen"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Vt EVP_PKEY
structure is used by various OpenSSL functions which require a general
private key without reference to any particular algorithm.
.Pp
The
.Fn EVP_PKEY_new
function allocates an empty
.Vt EVP_PKEY
structure.
The reference count is set to 1.
To add a private or public key to it, use the functions described in
.Xr EVP_PKEY_set1_RSA 3 .
.Pp
.Fn EVP_PKEY_up_ref
increments the reference count of
.Fa key
by 1.
.Pp
.Fn EVP_PKEY_free
decrements the reference count of
.Fa key
by 1, and if the reference count reaches zero, frees it up.
If
.Fa key
is a
.Dv NULL
pointer, no action occurs.
.Pp
.Fn EVP_PKEY_new_mac_key
allocates a new
.Vt EVP_PKEY .
If
.Fa e
is
.Pf non- Dv NULL ,
then the new
.Vt EVP_PKEY
structure is associated with the engine
.Fa e .
The
.Fa type
argument indicates what kind of key this is.
The value should be a NID for a public key algorithm that supports
raw private keys, for example
.Dv EVP_PKEY_HMAC .
.Fa key
points to the raw private key data for this
.Vt EVP_PKEY
which should be of length
.Fa keylen .
The length should be appropriate for the type of the key.
The public key data will be automatically derived from the given
private key data (if appropriate for the algorithm type).
.Sh RETURN VALUES
.Fn EVP_PKEY_new
and
.Fn EVP_PKEY_new_mac_key
return either the newly allocated
.Vt EVP_PKEY
structure or
.Dv NULL
if an error occurred.
.Pp
.Fn EVP_PKEY_up_ref
returns 1 for success or 0 for failure.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr EVP_PKEY_asn1_set_free 3 ,
.Xr EVP_PKEY_set1_RSA 3
.Sh HISTORY
.Fn EVP_PKEY_new
and
.Fn EVP_PKEY_free
first appeared in SSLeay 0.6.0 and have been available since
.Ox 2.4 .
.Pp
.Fn EVP_PKEY_new_mac_key
first appeared in OpenSSL 1.0.0 and has been available since
.Ox 4.9 .
.Pp
.Fn EVP_PKEY_up_ref
first appeared in OpenSSL 1.1.0 and has been available since
.Ox 6.3 .
