.\" $OpenBSD: EVP_CIPHER_CTX_get_cipher_data.3,v 1.1 2023/08/25 18:22:41 schwarze Exp $
.\" full merge up to: OpenSSL 99d63d46 Oct 26 13:56:48 2016 -0400
.\"
.\" This file was written by Matt Caswell <matt@openssl.org>
.\" Copyright (c) 2016 The OpenSSL Project.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
.\"    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
.\"    distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this
.\"    software must display the following acknowledgment:
.\"    "This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project
.\"    for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit. (http://www.openssl.org/)"
.\"
.\" 4. The names "OpenSSL Toolkit" and "OpenSSL Project" must not be used to
.\"    endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\"    prior written permission. For written permission, please contact
.\"    openssl-core@openssl.org.
.\"
.\" 5. Products derived from this software may not be called "OpenSSL"
.\"    nor may "OpenSSL" appear in their names without prior written
.\"    permission of the OpenSSL Project.
.\"
.\" 6. Redistributions of any form whatsoever must retain the following
.\"    acknowledgment:
.\"    "This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project
.\"    for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit (http://www.openssl.org/)"
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE OpenSSL PROJECT ``AS IS'' AND ANY
.\" EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
.\" PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE OpenSSL PROJECT OR
.\" ITS CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
.\" SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
.\" LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
.\" STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED
.\" OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: August 25 2023 $
.Dt EVP_CIPHER_CTX_GET_CIPHER_DATA 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm EVP_CIPHER_CTX_get_cipher_data ,
.Nm EVP_CIPHER_CTX_set_cipher_data
.Nd inspect and modify EVP_CIPHER_CTX objects
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In openssl/evp.h
.Ft void *
.Fo EVP_CIPHER_CTX_get_cipher_data
.Fa "const EVP_CIPHER_CTX *ctx"
.Fc
.Ft void *
.Fo EVP_CIPHER_CTX_set_cipher_data
.Fa "EVP_CIPHER_CTX *ctx"
.Fa "void *cipher_data"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Fn EVP_CIPHER_CTX_get_cipher_data
returns a pointer to the cipher data of
.Fa ctx .
The format and content of this data is specific to the algorithm
and to the particular implementation of the cipher.
For example, this data can be used by engines
to store engine specific information.
The data is automatically allocated and freed by OpenSSL, so
applications and engines should not normally free this directly (but see
below).
.Pp
.Fn EVP_CIPHER_CTX_set_cipher_data
allows an application or engine to replace the existing cipher data
with new data, transfering ownership of
.Fa cipher_data
to the
.Fa ctx
object.
A pointer to any existing cipher data is returned from this function.
If the old data is no longer required,
it should be freed through a call to
.Xr free 3 .
.Sh RETURN VALUES
.Fn EVP_CIPHER_CTX_get_cipher_data
returns an internal pointer owned by
.Fa ctx .
.Pp
.Fn EVP_CIPHER_CTX_set_cipher_data
returns a pointer to the old cipher data of
.Fa ctx
and transfers ownership to the caller.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr evp 3 ,
.Xr EVP_EncryptInit 3
.Sh HISTORY
.Fn EVP_CIPHER_CTX_get_cipher_data
and
.Fn EVP_CIPHER_CTX_set_cipher_data
first appeared in OpenSSL 1.1.0 and have been available since
.Ox 7.1 .
