.\" $OpenBSD: EVP_CIPHER_CTX_init.3,v 1.1 2023/12/01 10:40:21 schwarze Exp $
.\" full merge up to:
.\" OpenSSL EVP_EncryptInit.pod 0874d7f2 Oct 11 13:13:47 2022 +0100
.\"
.\" This file is a derived work.
.\" The changes are covered by the following Copyright and license:
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2018, 2019 Ingo Schwarze <schwarze@openbsd.org>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" The original file was written by Dr. Stephen Henson <steve@openssl.org>
.\" and Richard Levitte <levitte@openssl.org>.
.\" Copyright (c) 2000-2001, 2015 The OpenSSL Project.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
.\"    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
.\"    distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this
.\"    software must display the following acknowledgment:
.\"    "This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project
.\"    for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit. (http://www.openssl.org/)"
.\"
.\" 4. The names "OpenSSL Toolkit" and "OpenSSL Project" must not be used to
.\"    endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\"    prior written permission. For written permission, please contact
.\"    openssl-core@openssl.org.
.\"
.\" 5. Products derived from this software may not be called "OpenSSL"
.\"    nor may "OpenSSL" appear in their names without prior written
.\"    permission of the OpenSSL Project.
.\"
.\" 6. Redistributions of any form whatsoever must retain the following
.\"    acknowledgment:
.\"    "This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project
.\"    for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit (http://www.openssl.org/)"
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE OpenSSL PROJECT ``AS IS'' AND ANY
.\" EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
.\" PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE OpenSSL PROJECT OR
.\" ITS CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
.\" SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
.\" LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
.\" STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED
.\" OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: December 1 2023 $
.Dt EVP_CIPHER_CTX_INIT 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm EVP_CIPHER_CTX_init ,
.Nm EVP_CIPHER_CTX_cleanup ,
.Nm EVP_Cipher
.Nd obsolete EVP cipher functions
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In openssl/evp.h
.Ft void
.Fo EVP_CIPHER_CTX_init
.Fa "EVP_CIPHER_CTX *ctx"
.Fc
.Ft int
.Fo EVP_CIPHER_CTX_cleanup
.Fa "EVP_CIPHER_CTX *ctx"
.Fc
.Ft int
.Fo EVP_Cipher
.Fa "EVP_CIPHER_CTX *ctx"
.Fa "unsigned char *out"
.Fa "const unsigned char *in"
.Fa "unsigned int inl"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Fn EVP_CIPHER_CTX_init
is a deprecated function to clear a cipher context on the stack
before use.
Do not use it on a cipher context returned from
.Xr EVP_CIPHER_CTX_new 3
or one that was already used.
.Pp
.Fn EVP_CIPHER_CTX_cleanup
is a deprecated alias for
.Xr EVP_CIPHER_CTX_reset 3 .
It clears all information from
.Fa ctx
and frees all allocated memory associated with it, except the
.Fa ctx
object itself.
.Pp
.Fn EVP_Cipher
encrypts or decrypts aligned blocks of data
whose lengths match the cipher block size.
It requires that the previous encryption or decryption operation
using the same
.Fa ctx ,
if there was any, ended exactly on a block boundary and that
.Fa inl
is an integer multiple of the cipher block size.
If either of these conditions is violated,
.Fn EVP_Cipher
silently produces incorrect results.
For that reason, using the function
.Xr EVP_CipherUpdate 3
instead is strongly recommended.
The latter can safely handle partial blocks, and even if
.Fa inl
actually is a multiple of the cipher block size for all calls,
the overhead incurred by using
.Xr EVP_CipherUpdate 3
is minimal.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
.Fn EVP_CIPHER_CTX_cleanup
and
.Fn EVP_Cipher
return 1 for success or 0 for failure.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr evp 3 ,
.Xr EVP_EncryptInit 3
.Sh HISTORY
.Fn EVP_Cipher
first appeared in SSLeay 0.6.5.
.Fn EVP_CIPHER_CTX_cleanup
first appeared in SSLeay 0.8.0.
.Fn EVP_CIPHER_CTX_init
first appeared in SSLeay 0.9.0.
All these functions have been available since
.Ox 2.4 .
