.\"	$OpenBSD: EVP_PKEY_derive.3,v 1.4 2016/11/27 15:27:19 schwarze Exp $
.\"	OpenSSL 99d63d46 Oct 26 13:56:48 2016 -0400
.\"
.\" This file was written by Dr. Stephen Henson <steve@openssl.org>.
.\" Copyright (c) 2006, 2009, 2013 The OpenSSL Project.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
.\"    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
.\"    distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this
.\"    software must display the following acknowledgment:
.\"    "This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project
.\"    for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit. (http://www.openssl.org/)"
.\"
.\" 4. The names "OpenSSL Toolkit" and "OpenSSL Project" must not be used to
.\"    endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\"    prior written permission. For written permission, please contact
.\"    openssl-core@openssl.org.
.\"
.\" 5. Products derived from this software may not be called "OpenSSL"
.\"    nor may "OpenSSL" appear in their names without prior written
.\"    permission of the OpenSSL Project.
.\"
.\" 6. Redistributions of any form whatsoever must retain the following
.\"    acknowledgment:
.\"    "This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project
.\"    for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit (http://www.openssl.org/)"
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE OpenSSL PROJECT ``AS IS'' AND ANY
.\" EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
.\" PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE OpenSSL PROJECT OR
.\" ITS CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
.\" SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
.\" LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
.\" STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED
.\" OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: November 27 2016 $
.Dt EVP_PKEY_DERIVE 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm EVP_PKEY_derive_init ,
.Nm EVP_PKEY_derive_set_peer ,
.Nm EVP_PKEY_derive
.Nd derive public key algorithm shared secret
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In openssl/evp.h
.Ft int
.Fo EVP_PKEY_derive_init
.Fa "EVP_PKEY_CTX *ctx"
.Fc
.Ft int
.Fo EVP_PKEY_derive_set_peer
.Fa "EVP_PKEY_CTX *ctx"
.Fa "EVP_PKEY *peer"
.Fc
.Ft int
.Fo EVP_PKEY_derive
.Fa "EVP_PKEY_CTX *ctx"
.Fa "unsigned char *key"
.Fa "size_t *keylen"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn EVP_PKEY_derive_init
function initializes a public key algorithm context using key
.Fa ctx->pkey
for shared secret derivation.
.Pp
The
.Fn EVP_PKEY_derive_set_peer
function sets the peer key: this will normally be a public key.
.Pp
The
.Fn EVP_PKEY_derive
function derives a shared secret using
.Fa ctx .
If
.Fa key
is
.Dv NULL ,
then the maximum size of the output buffer is written to the
.Fa keylen
parameter.
If
.Fa key
is not
.Dv NULL
then before the call the
.Fa keylen
parameter should contain the length of the
.Fa key
buffer.
If the call is successful, the shared secret is written to
.Fa key
and the amount of data written to
.Fa keylen .
.Pp
After the call to
.Fn EVP_PKEY_derive_init ,
algorithm specific control operations can be performed to set any
appropriate parameters for the operation.
.Pp
The function
.Fn EVP_PKEY_derive
can be called more than once on the same context if several operations
are performed using the same parameters.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
.Fn EVP_PKEY_derive_init
and
.Fn EVP_PKEY_derive
return 1 for success and 0 or a negative value for failure.
In particular, a return value of -2 indicates the operation is not
supported by the public key algorithm.
.Sh EXAMPLES
Derive shared secret (for example DH or EC keys):
.Bd -literal -offset indent
#include <openssl/evp.h>
#include <openssl/rsa.h>

EVP_PKEY_CTX *ctx;
unsigned char *skey;
size_t skeylen;
EVP_PKEY *pkey, *peerkey;
/* NB: assumes pkey, peerkey have been already set up */

ctx = EVP_PKEY_CTX_new(pkey);
if (!ctx)
	/* Error occurred */
if (EVP_PKEY_derive_init(ctx) <= 0)
	/* Error */
if (EVP_PKEY_derive_set_peer(ctx, peerkey) <= 0)
	/* Error */

/* Determine buffer length */
if (EVP_PKEY_derive(ctx, NULL, &skeylen) <= 0)
	/* Error */

skey = malloc(skeylen);

if (!skey)
	/* malloc failure */

if (EVP_PKEY_derive(ctx, skey, &skeylen) <= 0)
	/* Error */

/* Shared secret is skey bytes written to buffer skey */
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr EVP_PKEY_CTX_new 3 ,
.Xr EVP_PKEY_decrypt 3 ,
.Xr EVP_PKEY_encrypt 3 ,
.Xr EVP_PKEY_sign 3 ,
.Xr EVP_PKEY_verify 3 ,
.Xr EVP_PKEY_verify_recover 3
.Sh HISTORY
These functions were first added to OpenSSL 1.0.0.
