.\"	$OpenBSD: lh_stats.3,v 1.6 2018/03/27 17:35:50 schwarze Exp $
.\"	OpenSSL e2f92610 May 18 11:44:05 2016 -0400
.\"
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" Major patches to this file were contributed by
.\" Ulf Moeller <ulf@openssl.org>.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" Copyright (c) 2000 The OpenSSL Project.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
.\"    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
.\"    distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this
.\"    software must display the following acknowledgment:
.\"    "This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project
.\"    for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit. (http://www.openssl.org/)"
.\"
.\" 4. The names "OpenSSL Toolkit" and "OpenSSL Project" must not be used to
.\"    endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\"    prior written permission. For written permission, please contact
.\"    openssl-core@openssl.org.
.\"
.\" 5. Products derived from this software may not be called "OpenSSL"
.\"    nor may "OpenSSL" appear in their names without prior written
.\"    permission of the OpenSSL Project.
.\"
.\" 6. Redistributions of any form whatsoever must retain the following
.\"    acknowledgment:
.\"    "This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project
.\"    for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit (http://www.openssl.org/)"
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE OpenSSL PROJECT ``AS IS'' AND ANY
.\" EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
.\" PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE OpenSSL PROJECT OR
.\" ITS CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
.\" SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
.\" LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
.\" STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED
.\" OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" Parts of this file are derived from SSLeay documentation,
.\" which is covered by the following Copyright and license:
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 1995-1998 Tim Hudson (tjh@cryptsoft.com)
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This package is an SSL implementation written
.\" by Eric Young (eay@cryptsoft.com).
.\" The implementation was written so as to conform with Netscapes SSL.
.\"
.\" This library is free for commercial and non-commercial use as long as
.\" the following conditions are aheared to.  The following conditions
.\" apply to all code found in this distribution, be it the RC4, RSA,
.\" lhash, DES, etc., code; not just the SSL code.  The SSL documentation
.\" included with this distribution is covered by the same copyright terms
.\" except that the holder is Tim Hudson (tjh@cryptsoft.com).
.\"
.\" Copyright remains Eric Young's, and as such any Copyright notices in
.\" the code are not to be removed.
.\" If this package is used in a product, Eric Young should be given
.\" attribution as the author of the parts of the library used.
.\" This can be in the form of a textual message at program startup or
.\" in documentation (online or textual) provided with the package.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"    "This product includes cryptographic software written by
.\"     Eric Young (eay@cryptsoft.com)"
.\"    The word 'cryptographic' can be left out if the rouines from the
.\"    library being used are not cryptographic related :-).
.\" 4. If you include any Windows specific code (or a derivative thereof)
.\"    from the apps directory (application code) you must include an
.\"    acknowledgement: "This product includes software written by
.\"    Tim Hudson (tjh@cryptsoft.com)"
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY ERIC YOUNG ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" The licence and distribution terms for any publically available version or
.\" derivative of this code cannot be changed.  i.e. this code cannot simply be
.\" copied and put under another distribution licence
.\" [including the GNU Public Licence.]
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: March 27 2018 $
.Dt LH_STATS 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm lh_stats ,
.Nm lh_node_stats ,
.Nm lh_node_usage_stats ,
.Nm lh_stats_bio ,
.Nm lh_node_stats_bio ,
.Nm lh_node_usage_stats_bio
.Nd LHASH statistics
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In openssl/lhash.h
.Ft void
.Fo lh_stats
.Fa "LHASH *table"
.Fa "FILE *out"
.Fc
.Ft void
.Fo lh_node_stats
.Fa "LHASH *table"
.Fa "FILE *out"
.Fc
.Ft void
.Fo lh_node_usage_stats
.Fa "LHASH *table"
.Fa "FILE *out"
.Fc
.Ft void
.Fo lh_stats_bio
.Fa "LHASH *table"
.Fa "BIO *out"
.Fc
.Ft void
.Fo lh_node_stats_bio
.Fa "LHASH *table"
.Fa "BIO *out"
.Fc
.Ft void
.Fo lh_node_usage_stats_bio
.Fa "LHASH *table"
.Fa "BIO *out"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Vt LHASH
structure records statistics about most aspects of accessing the hash
table.
.Pp
.Fn lh_stats
prints out statistics on the size of the hash table, how many entries
are in it, and the number and result of calls to the routines in this
library.
.Pp
.Fn lh_node_stats
prints the number of entries for each 'bucket' in the hash table.
.Pp
.Fn lh_node_usage_stats
prints out a short summary of the state of the hash table.
It prints the 'load' and the 'actual load'.
The load is the average number of data items per 'bucket' in the hash
table.
The 'actual load' is the average number of items per 'bucket', but only
for buckets which contain entries.
So the 'actual load' is the average number of searches that will need to
find an item in the hash table, while the 'load' is the average number
that will be done to record a miss.
.Pp
.Fn lh_stats_bio ,
.Fn lh_node_stats_bio ,
and
.Fn lh_node_usage_stats_bio
are the same as the above, except that the output goes to a
.Vt BIO .
.Sh RETURN VALUES
These functions do not return values.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr BIO_new 3 ,
.Xr lh_new 3
.Sh HISTORY
.Fn lh_stats ,
.Fn lh_node_stats ,
.Fn lh_node_usage_stats
appeared in SSLeay 0.4.
.Fn lh_stats_bio ,
.Fn lh_node_stats_bio ,
and
.Fn lh_node_usage_stats_bio
first appeared in SSLeay 0.6.0.
These functions have been available since
.Ox 2.4 .
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Eric Young
