.\"	$OpenBSD: OCSP_resp_find_status.3,v 1.2 2016/12/06 14:54:55 schwarze Exp $
.\"	OpenSSL c952780c Jun 21 07:03:34 2016 -0400
.\"
.\" This file was written by Dr. Stephen Henson <steve@openssl.org>.
.\" Copyright (c) 2014 The OpenSSL Project.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
.\"    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
.\"    distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this
.\"    software must display the following acknowledgment:
.\"    "This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project
.\"    for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit. (http://www.openssl.org/)"
.\"
.\" 4. The names "OpenSSL Toolkit" and "OpenSSL Project" must not be used to
.\"    endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\"    prior written permission. For written permission, please contact
.\"    openssl-core@openssl.org.
.\"
.\" 5. Products derived from this software may not be called "OpenSSL"
.\"    nor may "OpenSSL" appear in their names without prior written
.\"    permission of the OpenSSL Project.
.\"
.\" 6. Redistributions of any form whatsoever must retain the following
.\"    acknowledgment:
.\"    "This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project
.\"    for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit (http://www.openssl.org/)"
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE OpenSSL PROJECT ``AS IS'' AND ANY
.\" EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
.\" PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE OpenSSL PROJECT OR
.\" ITS CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
.\" SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
.\" LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
.\" STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED
.\" OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: December 6 2016 $
.Dt OCSP_RESP_FIND_STATUS 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm OCSP_resp_find_status ,
.Nm OCSP_resp_count ,
.Nm OCSP_resp_get0 ,
.Nm OCSP_resp_find ,
.Nm OCSP_single_get0_status ,
.Nm OCSP_check_validity
.Nd OCSP response utility functions
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In openssl/ocsp.h
.Ft int
.Fo OCSP_resp_find_status
.Fa "OCSP_BASICRESP *bs"
.Fa "OCSP_CERTID *id"
.Fa "int *status"
.Fa "int *reason"
.Fa "ASN1_GENERALIZEDTIME **revtime"
.Fa "ASN1_GENERALIZEDTIME **thisupd"
.Fa "ASN1_GENERALIZEDTIME **nextupd"
.Fc
.Ft int
.Fo OCSP_resp_count
.Fa "OCSP_BASICRESP *bs"
.Fc
.Ft OCSP_SINGLERESP *
.Fo OCSP_resp_get0
.Fa "OCSP_BASICRESP *bs"
.Fa "int idx"
.Fc
.Ft int
.Fo OCSP_resp_find
.Fa "OCSP_BASICRESP *bs"
.Fa "OCSP_CERTID *id"
.Fa "int last"
.Fc
.Ft int
.Fo OCSP_single_get0_status
.Fa "OCSP_SINGLERESP *single"
.Fa "int *reason"
.Fa "ASN1_GENERALIZEDTIME **revtime"
.Fa "ASN1_GENERALIZEDTIME **thisupd"
.Fa "ASN1_GENERALIZEDTIME **nextupd"
.Fc
.Ft int
.Fo OCSP_check_validity
.Fa "ASN1_GENERALIZEDTIME *thisupd"
.Fa "ASN1_GENERALIZEDTIME *nextupd"
.Fa "long sec"
.Fa "long maxsec"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Fn OCSP_resp_find_status
searches
.Fa bs
for an OCSP response for
.Fa id .
If it is successful, the fields of the response are returned in
.Pf * Fa status ,
.Pf * Fa reason ,
.Pf * Fa revtime ,
.Pf * Fa thisupd
and
.Pf * Fa nextupd .
The
.Pf * Fa status
value will be one of
.Dv V_OCSP_CERTSTATUS_GOOD ,
.Dv V_OCSP_CERTSTATUS_REVOKED ,
or
.Dv V_OCSP_CERTSTATUS_UNKNOWN .
The
.Pf * Fa reason
and
.Pf * Fa revtime
fields are only set if the status is
.Dv V_OCSP_CERTSTATUS_REVOKED .
If set, the
.Pf * Fa reason
field will be set to the revocation reason which will be one of
.Dv OCSP_REVOKED_STATUS_NOSTATUS ,
.Dv OCSP_REVOKED_STATUS_UNSPECIFIED ,
.Dv OCSP_REVOKED_STATUS_KEYCOMPROMISE ,
.Dv OCSP_REVOKED_STATUS_CACOMPROMISE ,
.Dv OCSP_REVOKED_STATUS_AFFILIATIONCHANGED ,
.Dv OCSP_REVOKED_STATUS_SUPERSEDED ,
.Dv OCSP_REVOKED_STATUS_CESSATIONOFOPERATION ,
.Dv OCSP_REVOKED_STATUS_CERTIFICATEHOLD
or
.Dv OCSP_REVOKED_STATUS_REMOVEFROMCRL .
.Pp
.Fn OCSP_resp_count
returns the number of
.Vt OCSP_SINGLERESP
structures in
.Fa bs .
.Pp
.Fn OCSP_resp_get0
returns the
.Vt OCSP_SINGLERESP
structure in
.Fa bs
corresponding to index
.Fa idx ,
where
.Fa idx
runs from 0 to
.Fn OCSP_resp_count bs No - 1 .
.Pp
.Fn OCSP_resp_find
searches
.Fa bs
for
.Fa id
and returns the index of the first matching entry after
.Fa last
or starting from the beginning if
.Fa last
is -1.
.Pp
.Fn OCSP_single_get0_status
extracts the fields of
.Fa single
in
.Pf * Fa reason ,
.Pf * Fa revtime ,
.Pf * Fa thisupd ,
and
.Pf * Fa nextupd .
.Pp
.Fn OCSP_check_validity
checks the validity of
.Fa thisupd
and
.Fa nextupd
values which will be typically obtained from
.Fn OCSP_resp_find_status
or
.Fn OCSP_single_get0_status .
If
.Fa sec
is non-zero it indicates how many seconds leeway should be allowed in
the check.
If
.Fa maxsec
is positive it indicates the maximum age of
.Fa thisupd
in seconds.
.Pp
Applications will typically call
.Fn OCSP_resp_find_status
using the certificate ID of interest and then check its validity using
.Fn OCSP_check_validity .
They can then take appropriate action based on the status of the
certificate.
.Pp
An OCSP response for a certificate contains
.Sy thisUpdate
and
.Sy nextUpdate
fields.
Normally the current time should be between these two values.
To account for clock skew, the
.Fa maxsec
field can be set to non-zero in
.Fn OCSP_check_validity .
Some responders do not set the
.Sy nextUpdate
field.
This would otherwise mean an ancient response would be considered
valid: the
.Fa maxsec
parameter to
.Fn OCSP_check_validity
can be used to limit the permitted age of responses.
.Pp
The values written to
.Pf * Fa revtime ,
.Pf * Fa thisupd ,
and
.Pf * Fa nextupd
by
.Fn OCSP_resp_find_status
and
.Fn OCSP_single_get0_status
are internal pointers which must not be freed up by the calling
application.
Any or all of these parameters can be set to
.Dv NULL
if their value is not required.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
.Fn OCSP_resp_find_status
returns 1 if
.Fa id
is found in
.Fa bs
or 0 otherwise.
.Pp
.Fn OCSP_resp_count
returns the total number of
.Vt OCSP_SINGLERESP
fields in
.Fa bs .
.Pp
.Fn OCSP_resp_get0
returns a pointer to an
.Vt OCSP_SINGLERESP
structure or
.Dv NULL
if
.Fa idx
is out of range.
.Pp
.Fn OCSP_resp_find
returns the index of
.Fa id
in
.Fa bs
(which may be 0) or -1 if
.Fa id
was not found.
.Pp
.Fn OCSP_single_get0_status
returns the status of
.Fa single
or -1 if an error occurred.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr OCSP_cert_to_id 3 ,
.Xr OCSP_request_add1_nonce 3 ,
.Xr OCSP_REQUEST_new 3 ,
.Xr OCSP_response_status 3 ,
.Xr OCSP_sendreq_new 3
