.\"	$OpenBSD: OCSP_response_status.3,v 1.2 2016/12/06 14:54:55 schwarze Exp $
.\"	OpenSSL bb9ad09e Jun 6 00:43:05 2016 -0400
.\"
.\" This file was written by Dr. Stephen Henson <steve@openssl.org>.
.\" Copyright (c) 2014, 2016 The OpenSSL Project.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
.\"    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
.\"    distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this
.\"    software must display the following acknowledgment:
.\"    "This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project
.\"    for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit. (http://www.openssl.org/)"
.\"
.\" 4. The names "OpenSSL Toolkit" and "OpenSSL Project" must not be used to
.\"    endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\"    prior written permission. For written permission, please contact
.\"    openssl-core@openssl.org.
.\"
.\" 5. Products derived from this software may not be called "OpenSSL"
.\"    nor may "OpenSSL" appear in their names without prior written
.\"    permission of the OpenSSL Project.
.\"
.\" 6. Redistributions of any form whatsoever must retain the following
.\"    acknowledgment:
.\"    "This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project
.\"    for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit (http://www.openssl.org/)"
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE OpenSSL PROJECT ``AS IS'' AND ANY
.\" EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
.\" PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE OpenSSL PROJECT OR
.\" ITS CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
.\" SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
.\" LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
.\" STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED
.\" OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: December 6 2016 $
.Dt OCSP_RESPONSE_STATUS 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm OCSP_response_status ,
.Nm OCSP_response_get1_basic ,
.Nm OCSP_response_create ,
.Nm OCSP_RESPONSE_free
.Nd OCSP response functions
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In openssl/ocsp.h
.Ft int
.Fo OCSP_response_status
.Fa "OCSP_RESPONSE *resp"
.Fc
.Ft OCSP_BASICRESP *
.Fo OCSP_response_get1_basic
.Fa "OCSP_RESPONSE *resp"
.Fc
.Ft OCSP_RESPONSE *
.Fo OCSP_response_create
.Fa "int status"
.Fa "OCSP_BASICRESP *bs"
.Fc
.Ft void
.Fo OCSP_RESPONSE_free
.Fa "OCSP_RESPONSE *resp"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Fn OCSP_response_status
returns the OCSP response status of
.Fa resp .
It returns one of the values:
.Dv OCSP_RESPONSE_STATUS_SUCCESSFUL ,
.Dv OCSP_RESPONSE_STATUS_MALFORMEDREQUEST ,
.Dv OCSP_RESPONSE_STATUS_INTERNALERROR ,
.Dv OCSP_RESPONSE_STATUS_TRYLATER ,
.Dv OCSP_RESPONSE_STATUS_SIGREQUIRED ,
or
.Dv OCSP_RESPONSE_STATUS_UNAUTHORIZED .
.Pp
.Fn OCSP_response_get1_basic
decodes and returns the
.Vt OCSP_BASICRESP
structure contained in
.Fa resp .
It is only called if the status of a response is
.Dv OCSP_RESPONSE_STATUS_SUCCESSFUL .
.Pp
.Fn OCSP_response_create
creates and returns an
.Vt OCSP_RESPONSE
structure for
.Fa status
and optionally including basic response
.Fa bs .
.Pp
.Fn OCSP_RESPONSE_free
frees up OCSP response
.Fa resp .
.Sh RETURN VALUES
.Fn OCSP_response_status
returns a status value.
.Pp
.Fn OCSP_response_get1_basic
returns an
.Vt OCSP_BASICRESP
structure pointer or
.Dv NULL
if an error occurred.
.Pp
.Fn OCSP_response_create
returns an
.Vt OCSP_RESPONSE
structure pointer or
.Dv NULL
if an error occurred.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr OCSP_cert_to_id 3 ,
.Xr OCSP_request_add1_nonce 3 ,
.Xr OCSP_REQUEST_new 3 ,
.Xr OCSP_resp_find_status 3 ,
.Xr OCSP_sendreq_new 3
