.\" $OpenBSD: OpenSSL_add_all_algorithms.3,v 1.16 2024/03/04 19:04:47 tb Exp $
.\" full merge up to: OpenSSL b3696a55 Sep 2 09:35:50 2017 -0400
.\"
.\" This file was written by Dr. Stephen Henson <steve@openssl.org>.
.\" Copyright (c) 2000, 2003, 2013 The OpenSSL Project.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
.\"    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
.\"    distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this
.\"    software must display the following acknowledgment:
.\"    "This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project
.\"    for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit. (http://www.openssl.org/)"
.\"
.\" 4. The names "OpenSSL Toolkit" and "OpenSSL Project" must not be used to
.\"    endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\"    prior written permission. For written permission, please contact
.\"    openssl-core@openssl.org.
.\"
.\" 5. Products derived from this software may not be called "OpenSSL"
.\"    nor may "OpenSSL" appear in their names without prior written
.\"    permission of the OpenSSL Project.
.\"
.\" 6. Redistributions of any form whatsoever must retain the following
.\"    acknowledgment:
.\"    "This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project
.\"    for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit (http://www.openssl.org/)"
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE OpenSSL PROJECT ``AS IS'' AND ANY
.\" EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
.\" PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE OpenSSL PROJECT OR
.\" ITS CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
.\" SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
.\" LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
.\" STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED
.\" OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: March 4 2024 $
.Dt OPENSSL_ADD_ALL_ALGORITHMS 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm OpenSSL_add_all_algorithms ,
.Nm OpenSSL_add_all_ciphers ,
.Nm OpenSSL_add_all_digests ,
.Nm EVP_cleanup ,
.Nm SSLeay_add_all_algorithms
.\" .Nm OPENSSL_add_all_algorithms_conf ,
.\" .Nm OPENSSL_add_all_algorithms_noconf ,
.\" .Nm SSLeay_add_all_ciphers , and
.\" .Nm SSLeay_add_all_digests are intentionally undocumented
.\" because they are unused aliases.
.Nd add algorithms to internal table
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In openssl/evp.h
.Ft void
.Fn OpenSSL_add_all_algorithms void
.Ft void
.Fn OpenSSL_add_all_ciphers void
.Ft void
.Fn OpenSSL_add_all_digests void
.Ft void
.Fn EVP_cleanup void
.Ft void
.Fn SSLeay_add_all_algorithms void
.Sh DESCRIPTION
These functions are deprecated.
It is never useful for any application program
to call any of them explicitly.
The library automatically calls them internally whenever needed.
.Pp
OpenSSL keeps an internal table of digest algorithms and ciphers.
It uses this table to look up ciphers via functions such as
.Xr EVP_get_cipherbyname 3 .
.Pp
.Fn OpenSSL_add_all_algorithms
adds all algorithms to the table (digests and ciphers).
If an application is compiled with the preprocessor symbol
.Dv OPENSSL_LOAD_CONF
#define'd, it also calls
.Xr OPENSSL_config 3
with a
.Dv NULL
argument, loading the default configuration file.
.Pp
.Fn OpenSSL_add_all_digests
adds all digest algorithms to the table.
.Pp
.Fn OpenSSL_add_all_ciphers
adds all encryption algorithms to the table including password based
encryption algorithms.
.Pp
If any of the above functions is called more than once,
only the first call has an effect.
.Pp
.Fn EVP_cleanup
removes all ciphers and digests from the table and also calls
.Xr OBJ_NAME_cleanup 3
with an argument of \-1 ,
thus resetting the global associative array of names
and all signature algorithm definitions to their default states,
removing all application-defined types, key-value pairs, and aliases,
including any that are unrelated to the EVP library.
.Pp
.Fn SSLeay_add_all_algorithms
is a deprecated alias for
.Fn OpenSSL_add_all_algorithms .
.Pp
.Fn OpenSSL_add_all_algorithms
and
.Fn SSLeay_add_all_algorithms
are implemented as macros.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr evp 3 ,
.Xr EVP_DigestInit 3 ,
.Xr EVP_EncryptInit 3 ,
.Xr OBJ_cleanup 3 ,
.Xr OBJ_NAME_add 3 ,
.Xr OPENSSL_config 3
.Sh HISTORY
.Fn EVP_cleanup ,
.Fn SSLeay_add_all_algorithms ,
and precursor functions
.Fn SSLeay_add_all_ciphers
and
.Fn SSLeay_add_all_digests
first appeared in SSLeay 0.8.0 and have been available since
.Ox 2.4 .
.Pp
.Fn OpenSSL_add_all_algorithms ,
.Fn OpenSSL_add_all_ciphers ,
and
.Fn OpenSSL_add_all_digests
first appeared in OpenSSL 0.9.5 and have been available since
.Ox 2.7 .
.Sh BUGS
Although the functions do not return error codes, it is possible for them
to fail.
This will only happen as a result of a memory allocation failure so this
is not too much of a problem in practice.
