.\"	$OpenBSD: OPENSSL_VERSION_NUMBER.3,v 1.3 2016/11/28 14:51:03 schwarze Exp $
.\"	OpenSSL 9b86974e Aug 17 15:21:33 2015 -0400
.\"
.\" This file was written by Ulf Moeller <ulf@openssl.org> and
.\" Richard Levitte <levitte@openssl.org>.
.\" Copyright (c) 2000, 2002, 2014 The OpenSSL Project.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
.\"    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
.\"    distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this
.\"    software must display the following acknowledgment:
.\"    "This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project
.\"    for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit. (http://www.openssl.org/)"
.\"
.\" 4. The names "OpenSSL Toolkit" and "OpenSSL Project" must not be used to
.\"    endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\"    prior written permission. For written permission, please contact
.\"    openssl-core@openssl.org.
.\"
.\" 5. Products derived from this software may not be called "OpenSSL"
.\"    nor may "OpenSSL" appear in their names without prior written
.\"    permission of the OpenSSL Project.
.\"
.\" 6. Redistributions of any form whatsoever must retain the following
.\"    acknowledgment:
.\"    "This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project
.\"    for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit (http://www.openssl.org/)"
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE OpenSSL PROJECT ``AS IS'' AND ANY
.\" EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
.\" PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE OpenSSL PROJECT OR
.\" ITS CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
.\" SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
.\" LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
.\" STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED
.\" OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: November 28 2016 $
.Dt OPENSSL_VERSION_NUMBER 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm OPENSSL_VERSION_NUMBER ,
.Nm SSLeay ,
.Nm SSLeay_version
.Nd get OpenSSL version number
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In openssl/opensslv.h
.Fd #define OPENSSL_VERSION_NUMBER 0xnnnnnnnnnL
.In openssl/crypto.h
.Ft long
.Fn SSLeay void
.Ft const char *
.Fo SSLeay_version
.Fa "int t"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Dv OPENSSL_VERSION_NUMBER
is a numeric release version identifier.
The first two digits contain the major release number,
the third and fourth digits the minor release number,
the fifth and sixth digits the fix release number,
the seventh and eight digits the patch release number.
The final digit is 0 for development, 1 to e for betas 1 to 14, or f
for release.
.Pp
For example:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
0x000906000 == 0.9.6 dev
0x000906023 == 0.9.6b beta 3
0x00090605f == 0.9.6e release
.Ed
.Pp
Versions prior to 0.9.3 had identifiers < 0x0930.
For versions between 0.9.3 and 0.9.5,
the seventh digit was 1 for release and 0 otherwise,
and the eighth and ninth digits were the patch release number.
.Pp
For example:
.Bd -literal
0x000904100 == 0.9.4 release
0x000905000 == 0.9.5 dev
.Ed
.Pp
Version 0.9.5a had an interim interpretation that is like the current
one, except the patch level got the highest bit set, to keep continuity.
The number was therefore 0x0090581f.
.Pp
For backward compatibility, SSLEAY_VERSION_NUMBER is also defined.
.Pp
.Fn SSLeay
returns this number.
The return value can be compared to the macro to make sure that the
correct version of the library has been loaded, especially when using
DLLs on Windows systems.
.Pp
.Fn SSLeay_version
returns different strings depending on
.Fa t :
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Dv SSLEAY_VERSION
The text variant of the version number and the release date.
For example, "OpenSSL 0.9.5a 1 Apr 2000".
.It Dv SSLEAY_CFLAGS
The compiler flags set for the compilation process in the form
"compiler: ..." if available or "compiler: information not available"
otherwise.
.It Dv SSLEAY_BUILT_ON
The date of the build process in the form "built on: ..." if available
or "built on: date not available" otherwise.
.It Dv SSLEAY_PLATFORM
The "Configure" target of the library build in the form "platform: ..."
if available or "platform: information not available" otherwise.
.It Dv SSLEAY_DIR
The "OPENSSLDIR" setting of the library build in the form "OPENSSLDIR:
"..."" if available or "OPENSSLDIR: N/A" otherwise.
.El
.Pp
For an unknown
.Fa t ,
the text "not available" is returned.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
The version number.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr crypto 3
.Sh HISTORY
.Fn SSLeay
and
.Dv SSLEAY_VERSION_NUMBER
are available in all versions of SSLeay and OpenSSL.
.Dv OPENSSL_VERSION_NUMBER
is available in all versions of OpenSSL.
.Dv SSLEAY_DIR
was added in OpenSSL 0.9.7.
