.\"	$OpenBSD: PEM_bytes_read_bio.3,v 1.2 2018/03/22 21:08:22 schwarze Exp $
.\"	OpenSSL PEM_bytes_read_bio.pod 7671342e Feb 29 15:47:12 2016 -0600
.\"
.\" This file was written by Benjamin Kaduk <bkaduk at akamai dot com>.
.\" Copyright (c) 2017 The OpenSSL Project.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
.\"    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
.\"    distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this
.\"    software must display the following acknowledgment:
.\"    "This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project
.\"    for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit. (http://www.openssl.org/)"
.\"
.\" 4. The names "OpenSSL Toolkit" and "OpenSSL Project" must not be used to
.\"    endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\"    prior written permission. For written permission, please contact
.\"    openssl-core@openssl.org.
.\"
.\" 5. Products derived from this software may not be called "OpenSSL"
.\"    nor may "OpenSSL" appear in their names without prior written
.\"    permission of the OpenSSL Project.
.\"
.\" 6. Redistributions of any form whatsoever must retain the following
.\"    acknowledgment:
.\"    "This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project
.\"    for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit (http://www.openssl.org/)"
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE OpenSSL PROJECT ``AS IS'' AND ANY
.\" EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
.\" PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE OpenSSL PROJECT OR
.\" ITS CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
.\" SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
.\" LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
.\" STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED
.\" OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: March 22 2018 $
.Dt PEM_BYTES_READ_BIO 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm PEM_bytes_read_bio
.Nd read a PEM-encoded data structure from a BIO
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In openssl/pem.h
.Ft int
.Fo PEM_bytes_read_bio
.Fa "unsigned char **pdata"
.Fa "long *plen"
.Fa "char **pnm"
.Fa "const char *name"
.Fa "BIO *bp"
.Fa "pem_password_cb *cb"
.Fa "void *u"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Fn PEM_bytes_read_bio
reads PEM-formatted (RFC 1421) data from the BIO
.Fa bp
for the data type given in
.Fa name
(RSA PRIVATE KEY, CERTIFICATE, etc.).
If multiple PEM-encoded data structures are present in the same stream,
.Fn PEM_bytes_read_bio
will skip non-matching data types and continue reading.
Non-PEM data present in the stream may cause an error.
.Pp
The PEM header may indicate that the following data is encrypted; if so,
the data will be decrypted, waiting on user input to supply a passphrase
if needed.
The password callback
.Fa cb
and rock
.Fa u
are used to obtain the decryption passphrase, if applicable.
.Pp
Some data types have compatibility aliases, such as a file containing
X509 CERTIFICATE matching a request for the deprecated type CERTIFICATE.
The actual type indicated by the file is returned in
.Em *pnm
if
.Fa pnm
is
.Pf non- Dv NULL .
The caller must free the storage pointed to by
.Em *pnm .
.Pp
The returned data is the DER-encoded form of the requested type, in
.Em *pdata
with length
.Em *plen .
The caller must free the storage pointed to by
.Em *pdata .
.Sh RETURN VALUES
.Fn PEM_bytes_read_bio
returns 1 for success or 0 for failure.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr PEM_read 3 ,
.Xr PEM_read_bio_PrivateKey 3
.Sh HISTORY
.Fn PEM_bytes_read_bio
first appeared in OpenSSL 0.9.7 and has been available since
.Ox 3.2 .
