.\" $OpenBSD: RSA_meth_new.3,v 1.1 2018/03/18 13:06:36 schwarze Exp $
.\" selective merge up to: OpenSSL a970b14f Jul 31 18:58:40 2017 -0400
.\"
.\" This file is a derived work.
.\" The changes are covered by the following Copyright and license:
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2018 Ingo Schwarze <schwarze@openbsd.org>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" The original file was written by Richard Levitte <levitte@openssl.org>.
.\" Copyright (c) 2016 The OpenSSL Project.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
.\"    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
.\"    distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this
.\"    software must display the following acknowledgment:
.\"    "This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project
.\"    for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit. (http://www.openssl.org/)"
.\"
.\" 4. The names "OpenSSL Toolkit" and "OpenSSL Project" must not be used to
.\"    endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\"    prior written permission. For written permission, please contact
.\"    openssl-core@openssl.org.
.\"
.\" 5. Products derived from this software may not be called "OpenSSL"
.\"    nor may "OpenSSL" appear in their names without prior written
.\"    permission of the OpenSSL Project.
.\"
.\" 6. Redistributions of any form whatsoever must retain the following
.\"    acknowledgment:
.\"    "This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project
.\"    for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit (http://www.openssl.org/)"
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE OpenSSL PROJECT ``AS IS'' AND ANY
.\" EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
.\" PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE OpenSSL PROJECT OR
.\" ITS CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
.\" SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
.\" LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
.\" STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED
.\" OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: March 18 2018 $
.Dt RSA_METH_NEW 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm RSA_meth_new ,
.Nm RSA_meth_free ,
.Nm RSA_meth_dup ,
.Nm RSA_meth_set_finish ,
.Nm RSA_meth_set_priv_enc ,
.Nm RSA_meth_set_priv_dec
.Nd build up RSA methods
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In openssl/rsa.h
.Ft RSA_METHOD *
.Fo RSA_meth_new
.Fa "const char *name"
.Fa "int flags"
.Fc
.Ft void
.Fo RSA_meth_free
.Fa "RSA_METHOD *meth"
.Fc
.Ft RSA_METHOD *
.Fo RSA_meth_dup
.Fa "const RSA_METHOD *meth"
.Fc
.Ft int
.Fo RSA_meth_set_finish
.Fa "RSA_METHOD *meth"
.Fa "int (*finish)(RSA *rsa)"
.Fc
.Ft int
.Fo RSA_meth_set_priv_enc
.Fa "RSA_METHOD *meth"
.Fa "int (*priv_enc)(int flen, const unsigned char *from,\
 unsigned char *to, RSA *rsa, int padding)"
.Fc
.Ft int
.Fo RSA_meth_set_priv_dec
.Fa "RSA_METHOD *meth"
.Fa "int (*priv_dec)(int flen, const unsigned char *from,\
 unsigned char *to, RSA *rsa, int padding)"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Vt RSA_METHOD
structure holds function pointers for custom RSA implementations.
.Pp
.Fn RSA_meth_new
creates a new
.Vt RSA_METHOD
structure.
A copy of the NUL-terminated
.Fa name
is stored in the new
.Vt RSA_METHOD
object.
Any new
.Vt RSA
object constructed from this
.Vt RSA_METHOD
will have the given
.Fa flags
set by default.
.Pp
.Fn RSA_meth_dup
creates a deep copy of
.Fa meth .
This might be useful for creating a new
.Vt RSA_METHOD
based on an existing one, but with some differences.
.Pp
.Fn RSA_meth_free
destroys
.Fa meth
and frees any memory associated with it.
.Pp
.Fn RSA_meth_set_finish
sets an optional function for destroying an
.Vt RSA
object.
Unless
.Fa finish
is
.Dv NULL ,
it will be called from
.Xr RSA_free 3 .
It takes the same argument
and is intended to do RSA implementation specific cleanup.
The memory used by the
.Vt RSA
object itself should not be freed by the
.Fa finish
function.
.Pp
.Fn RSA_meth_set_priv_enc
and
.Fn RSA_meth_set_priv_dec
set the functions used for private key encryption and decryption.
These functions will be called from
.Xr RSA_private_decrypt 3
and
.Xr RSA_private_encrypt 3
and take the same parameters as those.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
.Fn RSA_meth_new
and
.Fn RSA_meth_dup
return the newly allocated
.Vt RSA_METHOD
object or
.Dv NULL
on failure.
.Pp
All
.Fn RSA_meth_set_*
functions return 1 on success or 0 on failure.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr RSA_new 3 ,
.Xr RSA_private_decrypt 3 ,
.Xr RSA_private_encrypt 3 ,
.Xr RSA_set_method 3
.Sh HISTORY
These functions first appeared in OpenSSL 1.1.0
and have been available since
.Ox 6.3 .
