.\"	$OpenBSD: RSA_set_method.3,v 1.12 2018/04/18 01:07:38 schwarze Exp $
.\"	OpenSSL 99d63d46 Oct 26 13:56:48 2016 -0400
.\"
.\" This file was written by Ulf Moeller <ulf@openssl.org>
.\" and Geoff Thorpe <geoff@openssl.org>.
.\" Copyright (c) 2000, 2002, 2007, 2014 The OpenSSL Project.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
.\"    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
.\"    distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this
.\"    software must display the following acknowledgment:
.\"    "This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project
.\"    for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit. (http://www.openssl.org/)"
.\"
.\" 4. The names "OpenSSL Toolkit" and "OpenSSL Project" must not be used to
.\"    endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\"    prior written permission. For written permission, please contact
.\"    openssl-core@openssl.org.
.\"
.\" 5. Products derived from this software may not be called "OpenSSL"
.\"    nor may "OpenSSL" appear in their names without prior written
.\"    permission of the OpenSSL Project.
.\"
.\" 6. Redistributions of any form whatsoever must retain the following
.\"    acknowledgment:
.\"    "This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project
.\"    for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit (http://www.openssl.org/)"
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE OpenSSL PROJECT ``AS IS'' AND ANY
.\" EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
.\" PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE OpenSSL PROJECT OR
.\" ITS CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
.\" SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
.\" LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
.\" STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED
.\" OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: April 18 2018 $
.Dt RSA_SET_METHOD 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm RSA_set_default_method ,
.Nm RSA_get_default_method ,
.Nm RSA_set_method ,
.Nm RSA_get_method ,
.Nm RSA_PKCS1_SSLeay ,
.Nm RSA_flags ,
.Nm RSA_new_method
.Nd select RSA method
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In openssl/rsa.h
.Ft void
.Fo RSA_set_default_method
.Fa "const RSA_METHOD *meth"
.Fc
.Ft const RSA_METHOD *
.Fn RSA_get_default_method void
.Ft int
.Fo RSA_set_method
.Fa "RSA *rsa"
.Fa "const RSA_METHOD *meth"
.Fc
.Ft const RSA_METHOD *
.Fo RSA_get_method
.Fa "const RSA *rsa"
.Fc
.Ft const RSA_METHOD *
.Fn RSA_PKCS1_SSLeay void
.Ft int
.Fo RSA_flags
.Fa "const RSA *rsa"
.Fc
.Ft RSA *
.Fo RSA_new_method
.Fa "ENGINE *engine"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
An
.Vt RSA_METHOD
object contains pointers to the functions used for RSA operations.
By default, the internal implementation returned by
.Fn RSA_PKCS1_SSLeay
is used.
By selecting another method, alternative implementations
such as hardware accelerators may be used.
.Pp
.Fn RSA_set_default_method
selects
.Fa meth
as the default method for all
.Vt RSA
structures created later.
If any
.Vt ENGINE
was registered with
.Xr ENGINE_register_RSA 3
that can be successfully initialized, it overrides the default.
.Pp
.Fn RSA_get_default_method
returns a pointer to the current default method,
even if it is actually overridded by an
.Vt ENGINE .
.Pp
.Fn RSA_set_method
selects
.Fa meth
to perform all operations using the key
.Fa rsa .
This replaces the
.Vt RSA_METHOD
used by the RSA key, and if the previous method was supplied by an
.Vt ENGINE ,
.Xr ENGINE_finish 3
is called on it.
It is possible to have RSA keys that only work with certain
.Vt RSA_METHOD
implementations (e.g. from an
.Vt ENGINE
module that supports embedded hardware-protected keys),
and in such cases attempting to change the
.Vt RSA_METHOD
for the key can have unexpected results.
.Pp
.Fn RSA_get_method
returns a pointer to the
.Vt RSA_METHOD
being used by
.Fa rsa .
This method may or may not be supplied by an
.Vt ENGINE
implementation but if it is, the return value can only be guaranteed
to be valid as long as the RSA key itself is valid and does not
have its implementation changed by
.Fn RSA_set_method .
.Pp
.Fn RSA_flags
returns the flags that are set for the current
.Vt RSA_METHOD
of
.Fa rsa .
See the
.Sx BUGS
section.
.Pp
.Fn RSA_new_method
allocates and initializes an
.Vt RSA
structure so that
.Fa engine
is used for the RSA operations.
If
.Fa engine
is
.Dv NULL ,
.Xr ENGINE_get_default_RSA 3
is used.
If that returns
.Dv NULL ,
the default method controlled by
.Fn RSA_set_default_method
is used.
.Pp
The
.Dv RSA_METHOD
structure is defined as follows:
.Bd -literal
typedef struct rsa_meth_st
{
     /* name of the implementation */
	const char *name;

     /* encrypt */
	int (*rsa_pub_enc)(int flen, unsigned char *from,
          unsigned char *to, RSA *rsa, int padding);

     /* verify arbitrary data */
	int (*rsa_pub_dec)(int flen, unsigned char *from,
          unsigned char *to, RSA *rsa, int padding);

     /* sign arbitrary data */
	int (*rsa_priv_enc)(int flen, unsigned char *from,
          unsigned char *to, RSA *rsa, int padding);

     /* decrypt */
	int (*rsa_priv_dec)(int flen, unsigned char *from,
          unsigned char *to, RSA *rsa, int padding);

     /* compute r0 = r0 ^ I mod rsa->n (May be NULL for some
                                        implementations) */
	int (*rsa_mod_exp)(BIGNUM *r0, BIGNUM *I, RSA *rsa);

     /* compute r = a ^ p mod m (May be NULL for some implementations) */
	int (*bn_mod_exp)(BIGNUM *r, BIGNUM *a, const BIGNUM *p,
          const BIGNUM *m, BN_CTX *ctx, BN_MONT_CTX *m_ctx);

     /* called at RSA_new */
	int (*init)(RSA *rsa);

     /* called at RSA_free */
	int (*finish)(RSA *rsa);

     /* RSA_FLAG_EXT_PKEY        - rsa_mod_exp is called for private key
      *                            operations, even if p,q,dmp1,dmq1,iqmp
      *                            are NULL
      * RSA_FLAG_SIGN_VER        - enable rsa_sign and rsa_verify
      * RSA_METHOD_FLAG_NO_CHECK - don't check pub/private match
      */
	int flags;

	char *app_data; /* ?? */

     /* sign. For backward compatibility, this is used only
      * if (flags & RSA_FLAG_SIGN_VER)
      */
	int (*rsa_sign)(int type, unsigned char *m, unsigned int m_len,
           unsigned char *sigret, unsigned int *siglen, RSA *rsa);

     /* verify. For backward compatibility, this is used only
      * if (flags & RSA_FLAG_SIGN_VER)
      */
	int (*rsa_verify)(int type, unsigned char *m, unsigned int m_len,
           unsigned char *sigbuf, unsigned int siglen, RSA *rsa);

} RSA_METHOD;
.Ed
.Sh RETURN VALUES
.Fn RSA_PKCS1_SSLeay ,
.Fn RSA_get_default_method ,
and
.Fn RSA_get_method
return pointers to the respective
.Vt RSA_METHOD .
.Pp
.Fn RSA_set_method
returns 1 on success or 0 on failure.
Currently, it cannot fail.
.Pp
.Fn RSA_new_method
returns
.Dv NULL
and sets an error code that can be obtained by
.Xr ERR_get_error 3
if the allocation fails.
Otherwise it returns a pointer to the newly allocated structure.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr ENGINE_get_default_RSA 3 ,
.Xr ENGINE_register_RSA 3 ,
.Xr ENGINE_set_default_RSA 3 ,
.Xr RSA_meth_new 3 ,
.Xr RSA_new 3
.Sh HISTORY
.Fn RSA_set_default_method ,
.Fn RSA_PKCS1_SSLeay ,
and
.Fn RSA_new_method
first appeared in SSLeay 0.8.0.
.Fn RSA_flags
first appeared in SSLeay 0.9.0.
These functions have been available since
.Ox 2.4 .
.Pp
.Fn RSA_get_default_method ,
.Fn RSA_set_method ,
and
.Fn RSA_get_method
as well as the
.Fa rsa_sign
and
.Fa rsa_verify
components of
.Vt RSA_METHOD
first appeared in OpenSSL 0.9.4 and have been available since
.Ox 2.6 .
.Sh BUGS
The behaviour of
.Fn RSA_flags
is a misfeature that is left as-is for now to avoid creating
compatibility problems.
RSA functionality, such as the encryption functions, are controlled by
the
.Fa flags
value in the
.Vt RSA
key itself, not by the
.Fa flags
value in the
.Vt RSA_METHOD
attached to the RSA key (which is what this function returns).
If the flags element of an
.Vt RSA
key is changed, the changes will be honoured by RSA functionality
but will not be reflected in the return value of the
.Fn RSA_flags
function - in effect
.Fn RSA_flags
behaves more like a RSA_default_flags() function, which does not
currently exist.
