.\" $OpenBSD: SMIME_write_CMS.3,v 1.2 2019/08/11 12:46:38 schwarze Exp $
.\" full merge up to: OpenSSL 99d63d46 Oct 26 13:56:48 2016 -0400
.\"
.\" This file was written by Dr. Stephen Henson <steve@openssl.org>.
.\" Copyright (c) 2008 The OpenSSL Project.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
.\"    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
.\"    distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this
.\"    software must display the following acknowledgment:
.\"    "This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project
.\"    for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit. (http://www.openssl.org/)"
.\"
.\" 4. The names "OpenSSL Toolkit" and "OpenSSL Project" must not be used to
.\"    endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\"    prior written permission. For written permission, please contact
.\"    openssl-core@openssl.org.
.\"
.\" 5. Products derived from this software may not be called "OpenSSL"
.\"    nor may "OpenSSL" appear in their names without prior written
.\"    permission of the OpenSSL Project.
.\"
.\" 6. Redistributions of any form whatsoever must retain the following
.\"    acknowledgment:
.\"    "This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project
.\"    for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit (http://www.openssl.org/)"
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE OpenSSL PROJECT ``AS IS'' AND ANY
.\" EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
.\" PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE OpenSSL PROJECT OR
.\" ITS CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
.\" SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
.\" LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
.\" STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED
.\" OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: August 11 2019 $
.Dt SMIME_WRITE_CMS 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm SMIME_write_CMS
.Nd convert CMS structure to S/MIME format
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In openssl/cms.h
.Ft int
.Fo SMIME_write_CMS
.Fa "BIO *out"
.Fa "CMS_ContentInfo *cms"
.Fa "BIO *data"
.Fa "int flags"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Fn SMIME_write_CMS
adds the appropriate MIME headers to a CMS structure to produce an
S/MIME message.
.Pp
.Fa out
is the
.Vt BIO
to write the data to.
.Fa cms
is the appropriate
.Vt CMS_ContentInfo
structure.
If streaming is enabled, then the content must be supplied in the
.Fa data
argument.
.Fa flags
is an optional set of flags.
.Pp
The following flags can be passed in the
.Fa flags
parameter:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Dv CMS_DETACHED
Use cleartext signing.
This option only makes sense for SignedData where
.Dv CMS_DETACHED
is also set when
.Xr CMS_sign 3
is called.
.Pp
If cleartext signing is used and
.Dv CMS_STREAM
is not set, then the data must be read twice:
once to compute the signature in
.Xr CMS_sign 3
and once to output the S/MIME message.
.It Dv CMS_TEXT
Add MIME headers for type text/plain to the content.
This only makes sense if
.Dv CMS_DETACHED
is also set.
.It Dv CMS_STREAM
Perform streaming.
This flag should only be set if
.Dv CMS_STREAM
was also set in the previous call to a
.Vt CMS_ContentInfo
creation function.
.Pp
If streaming is performed, the content is output in BER format using
indefinite length constructed encoding except in the case of signed data
with detached content where the content is absent and DER format is
used.
.El
.Sh RETURN VALUES
.Fn SMIME_write_CMS
returns 1 for success or 0 for failure.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr CMS_decrypt 3 ,
.Xr CMS_encrypt 3 ,
.Xr CMS_sign 3 ,
.Xr CMS_verify 3 ,
.Xr ERR_get_error 3
.Sh HISTORY
.Fn SMIME_write_CMS
first appeared in OpenSSL 0.9.8h
and has been available since
.Ox 6.6 .
.Sh BUGS
.Fn SMIME_write_CMS
always base64 encodes CMS structures.
There should be an option to disable this.
