.\"	$OpenBSD: SMIME_write_PKCS7.3,v 1.5 2018/03/22 16:06:33 schwarze Exp $
.\"	OpenSSL 99d63d46 Oct 26 13:56:48 2016 -0400
.\"
.\" This file was written by Dr. Stephen Henson <steve@openssl.org>.
.\" Copyright (c) 2002, 2003, 2006, 2007, 2015 The OpenSSL Project.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
.\"    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
.\"    distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this
.\"    software must display the following acknowledgment:
.\"    "This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project
.\"    for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit. (http://www.openssl.org/)"
.\"
.\" 4. The names "OpenSSL Toolkit" and "OpenSSL Project" must not be used to
.\"    endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\"    prior written permission. For written permission, please contact
.\"    openssl-core@openssl.org.
.\"
.\" 5. Products derived from this software may not be called "OpenSSL"
.\"    nor may "OpenSSL" appear in their names without prior written
.\"    permission of the OpenSSL Project.
.\"
.\" 6. Redistributions of any form whatsoever must retain the following
.\"    acknowledgment:
.\"    "This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project
.\"    for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit (http://www.openssl.org/)"
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE OpenSSL PROJECT ``AS IS'' AND ANY
.\" EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
.\" PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE OpenSSL PROJECT OR
.\" ITS CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
.\" SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
.\" LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
.\" STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED
.\" OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: March 22 2018 $
.Dt SMIME_WRITE_PKCS7 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm SMIME_write_PKCS7
.Nd convert PKCS#7 structure to S/MIME format
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In openssl/pkcs7.h
.Ft int
.Fo SMIME_write_PKCS7
.Fa "BIO *out"
.Fa "PKCS7 *p7"
.Fa "BIO *data"
.Fa "int flags"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Fn SMIME_write_PKCS7
adds the appropriate MIME headers to a PKCS#7 structure to produce an
S/MIME message.
.Pp
.Fa out
is the
.Vt BIO
to write the data to.
.Fa p7
is the appropriate
.Vt PKCS7
structure.
If streaming is enabled, then the content must be supplied in the
.Fa data
argument.
.Fa flags
is an optional set of flags.
.Pp
The following flags can be passed in the
.Fa flags
parameter.
.Pp
If
.Dv PKCS7_DETACHED
is set, then cleartext signing will be used.
This option only makes sense for signedData where
.Dv PKCS7_DETACHED
is also set when
.Xr PKCS7_sign 3
is also called.
.Pp
If the
.Dv PKCS7_TEXT
flag is set, MIME headers for type
.Sy text/plain
are added to the content.
This only makes sense if
.Dv PKCS7_DETACHED
is also set.
.Pp
If the
.Dv PKCS7_STREAM
flag is set, streaming is performed.
This flag should only be set if
.Dv PKCS7_STREAM
was also set in the previous call to
.Xr PKCS7_sign 3
or
.Xr PKCS7_encrypt 3 .
.Pp
If cleartext signing is being used and
.Dv PKCS7_STREAM
is not set, then the data must be read twice: once to compute the
signature in
.Xr PKCS7_sign 3
and once to output the S/MIME message.
.Pp
If streaming is performed, the content is output in BER format using
indefinite length constructed encoding except in the case of signed
data with detached content where the content is absent and DER
format is used.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
.Fn SMIME_write_PKCS7
returns 1 for success or 0 for failure.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr ERR_get_error 3 ,
.Xr i2d_PKCS7_bio_stream 3 ,
.Xr PEM_write_PKCS7 3 ,
.Xr PKCS7_new 3 ,
.Xr SMIME_read_PKCS7 3
.Sh HISTORY
.Fn SMIME_write_PKCS7
first appeared in OpenSSL 0.9.5 and has been available since
.Ox 2.7 .
.Sh BUGS
.Fn SMIME_write_PKCS7
always base64 encodes PKCS#7 structures.
There should be an option to disable this.
