.\"	$OpenBSD: X509_NAME_get_index_by_NID.3,v 1.6 2016/12/25 22:15:10 schwarze Exp $
.\"	OpenSSL aebb9aac Jul 19 09:27:53 2016 -0400
.\"
.\" This file was written by Dr. Stephen Henson <steve@openssl.org>.
.\" Copyright (c) 2002, 2006, 2014, 2015, 2016 The OpenSSL Project.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
.\"    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
.\"    distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this
.\"    software must display the following acknowledgment:
.\"    "This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project
.\"    for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit. (http://www.openssl.org/)"
.\"
.\" 4. The names "OpenSSL Toolkit" and "OpenSSL Project" must not be used to
.\"    endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\"    prior written permission. For written permission, please contact
.\"    openssl-core@openssl.org.
.\"
.\" 5. Products derived from this software may not be called "OpenSSL"
.\"    nor may "OpenSSL" appear in their names without prior written
.\"    permission of the OpenSSL Project.
.\"
.\" 6. Redistributions of any form whatsoever must retain the following
.\"    acknowledgment:
.\"    "This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project
.\"    for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit (http://www.openssl.org/)"
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE OpenSSL PROJECT ``AS IS'' AND ANY
.\" EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
.\" PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE OpenSSL PROJECT OR
.\" ITS CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
.\" SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
.\" LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
.\" STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED
.\" OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: December 25 2016 $
.Dt X509_NAME_GET_INDEX_BY_NID 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm X509_NAME_get_index_by_NID ,
.Nm X509_NAME_get_index_by_OBJ ,
.Nm X509_NAME_entry_count ,
.Nm X509_NAME_get_entry ,
.Nm X509_NAME_get_text_by_NID ,
.Nm X509_NAME_get_text_by_OBJ
.Nd X509_NAME lookup and enumeration functions
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In openssl/x509.h
.Ft int
.Fo X509_NAME_get_index_by_NID
.Fa "X509_NAME *name"
.Fa "int nid"
.Fa "int lastpos"
.Fc
.Ft int
.Fo X509_NAME_get_index_by_OBJ
.Fa "X509_NAME *name"
.Fa "ASN1_OBJECT *obj"
.Fa "int lastpos"
.Fc
.Ft int
.Fo X509_NAME_entry_count
.Fa "X509_NAME *name"
.Fc
.Ft X509_NAME_ENTRY *
.Fo X509_NAME_get_entry
.Fa "X509_NAME *name"
.Fa "int loc"
.Fc
.Ft int
.Fo X509_NAME_get_text_by_NID
.Fa "X509_NAME *name"
.Fa "int nid"
.Fa "char *buf"
.Fa "int len"
.Fc
.Ft int
.Fo X509_NAME_get_text_by_OBJ
.Fa "X509_NAME *name"
.Fa "ASN1_OBJECT *obj"
.Fa "char *buf"
.Fa "int len"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
These functions allow an
.Vt X509_NAME
structure to be examined.
The
.Vt X509_NAME
structure is the same as the ASN.1
.Vt Name
type defined in RFC 2459 (and elsewhere) and used, for example,
in certificate subject and issuer names.
.Pp
.Fn X509_NAME_get_index_by_NID
and
.Fn X509_NAME_get_index_by_OBJ
retrieve the next index matching
.Fa nid
or
.Fa obj
after
.Fa lastpos .
.Fa lastpos
should initially be set to -1.
If there are no more entries, -1 is returned.
If
.Fa nid
is invalid (doesn't correspond to a valid OID), -2 is returned.
.Pp
.Fn X509_NAME_entry_count
returns the total number of entries in
.Fa name .
.Pp
.Fn X509_NAME_get_entry
retrieves the
.Vt X509_NAME_ENTRY
from
.Fa name
corresponding to index
.Fa loc .
Acceptable values for
.Fa loc
run from 0 to
.Fn X509_NAME_entry_count name
- 1.
The value returned is an internal pointer which must not be freed.
.Pp
.Fn X509_NAME_get_text_by_NID
and
.Fn X509_NAME_get_text_by_OBJ
retrieve the "text" from the first entry in
.Fa name
which matches
.Fa nid
or
.Fa obj .
If no such entry exists, -1 is returned.
At most
.Fa len
bytes will be written and the text written to
.Fa buf
will be NUL terminated.
The length of the output string written is returned excluding the
terminating NUL.
If
.Fa buf
is
.Dv NULL
then the amount of space needed in
.Fa buf
(excluding the final NUL) is returned.
.Pp
All relevant
.Dv NID_*
and
.Dv OBJ_*
codes can be found in the header files
.In openssl/obj_mac.h
and
.In openssl/objects.h .
.Pp
Applications which could pass invalid NIDs to
.Fn X509_NAME_get_index_by_NID
should check for the return value of -2.
Alternatively the NID validity can be determined first by checking that
.Fn OBJ_nid2obj nid
is not
.Dv NULL .
.Sh RETURN VALUES
.Fn X509_NAME_get_index_by_NID
and
.Fn X509_NAME_get_index_by_OBJ
return the index of the next matching entry or -1 if not found.
.Pp
.Fn X509_NAME_entry_count
returns the total number of entries.
.Pp
.Fn X509_NAME_get_entry
returns an
.Vt X509_NAME
pointer to the requested entry or
.Dv NULL
if the index is invalid.
.Sh EXAMPLES
Process all entries:
.Bd -literal
int i;
X509_NAME_ENTRY *e;

for (i = 0; i < X509_NAME_entry_count(nm); i++) {
	e = X509_NAME_get_entry(nm, i);
	/* Do something with e */
}
.Ed
.Pp
Process all commonName entries:
.Bd -literal
int lastpos = -1;
X509_NAME_ENTRY *e;

for (;;) {
	lastpos = X509_NAME_get_index_by_NID(nm, NID_commonName, lastpos);
	if (lastpos == -1)
		break;
	e = X509_NAME_get_entry(nm, lastpos);
	/* Do something with e */
}
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr d2i_X509_NAME 3 ,
.Xr ERR_get_error 3 ,
.Xr X509_NAME_new 3
.Sh CAVEATS
.Fn X509_NAME_get_text_by_NID
and
.Fn X509_NAME_get_text_by_OBJ
are legacy functions which have various limitations which make them of
minimal use in practice.
They can only find the first matching entry and will copy the contents
of the field verbatim: this can be highly confusing if the target is a
multicharacter string type like a
.Vt BMPString
or a
.Vt UTF8String .
.Pp
For a more general solution,
.Fn X509_NAME_get_index_by_NID
or
.Fn X509_NAME_get_index_by_OBJ
should be used, followed by
.Fn X509_NAME_get_entry
on any matching indices and then the various
.Vt X509_NAME_ENTRY
utility functions on the result.
