.\" $OpenBSD: X509_get_pubkey_parameters.3,v 1.1 2021/10/19 17:42:49 schwarze Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2021 Ingo Schwarze <schwarze@openbsd.org>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: October 19 2021 $
.Dt X509_GET_PUBKEY_PARAMETERS 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm X509_get_pubkey_parameters
.Nd copy public key parameters from a chain
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In openssl/x509.h
.Ft int
.Fo X509_get_pubkey_parameters
.Fa "EVP_PKEY *pkey"
.Fa "STACK_OF(X509) *chain"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Fn X509_get_pubkey_parameters
copies public key parameters from the first appropriate certificate in the
.Fa chain .
.Pp
If
.Fa pkey
is not
.Dv NULL
and already contains complete public key parameters or uses an
algorithm that does not use any parameters, no action occurs and
the function indicates success without inspecting the existing
parameters, without inspecting the
.Fa chain ,
and without comparing any parameters.
.Pp
Otherwise, all public key parameters are copied
from the first certificate in the
.Fa chain
that contains complete public key parameters
to each certificate preceding it in the
.Fa chain .
Unless
.Fa pkey
is a
.Dv NULL
pointer, the same parameters are also copied to
.Fa pkey .
.Sh RETURN VALUES
.Fn X509_get_pubkey_parameters
returns 1 for success or 0 for failure.
.Sh ERRORS
The following diagnostics can be retrieved with
.Xr ERR_get_error 3 ,
.Xr ERR_GET_REASON 3 ,
and
.Xr ERR_reason_error_string 3 :
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Dv X509_R_UNABLE_TO_GET_CERTS_PUBLIC_KEY Qq unable to get certs public key
Retrieving the public key from a certificate in the
.Fa chain
failed before a certificate containing complete public key parameters
could be found.
.It Xo
.Dv X509_R_UNABLE_TO_FIND_PARAMETERS_IN_CHAIN
.Qq unable to find parameters in chain
.Xc
None of the certificates in the chain
contain complete public key parameters.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr EVP_PKEY_copy_parameters 3 ,
.Xr EVP_PKEY_new 3 ,
.Xr X509_get_pubkey 3 ,
.Xr X509_new 3
.Sh HISTORY
.Fn X509_get_pubkey_parameters
first appeared in SSLeay 0.8.0 and has been available since
.Ox 2.4 .
.Sh BUGS
If an error occurs while copying parameters with
.Xr EVP_PKEY_copy_parameters 3 ,
.Fn X509_get_pubkey_parameters
indicates success regardless.
In this case, it is possible that a part of the parameters was copied
while another part remained in its former state, or that nothing got
copied at all.
.Pp
Some errors of this kind, for example some kinds of key type
mismatches and some kinds of memory allocation failures, can be
detected by inspecting the error stack after
.Fn X509_get_pubkey_parameters
returns successfully, but some other kinds of algorithm-specific
copying failures might be impossible to detect at all.
