.\" $OpenBSD: X509_STORE_set_verify_cb_func.3,v 1.10 2021/07/29 10:13:45 schwarze Exp $
.\" full merge up to: OpenSSL 05ea606a May 20 20:52:46 2016 -0400
.\" selective merge up to: OpenSSL 315c47e0 Dec 1 14:22:16 2020 +0100
.\"
.\" This file was written by Dr. Stephen Henson <steve@openssl.org>.
.\" Copyright (c) 2009 The OpenSSL Project.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
.\"    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
.\"    distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this
.\"    software must display the following acknowledgment:
.\"    "This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project
.\"    for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit. (http://www.openssl.org/)"
.\"
.\" 4. The names "OpenSSL Toolkit" and "OpenSSL Project" must not be used to
.\"    endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\"    prior written permission. For written permission, please contact
.\"    openssl-core@openssl.org.
.\"
.\" 5. Products derived from this software may not be called "OpenSSL"
.\"    nor may "OpenSSL" appear in their names without prior written
.\"    permission of the OpenSSL Project.
.\"
.\" 6. Redistributions of any form whatsoever must retain the following
.\"    acknowledgment:
.\"    "This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project
.\"    for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit (http://www.openssl.org/)"
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE OpenSSL PROJECT ``AS IS'' AND ANY
.\" EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
.\" PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE OpenSSL PROJECT OR
.\" ITS CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
.\" SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
.\" LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
.\" STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED
.\" OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: July 29 2021 $
.Dt X509_STORE_SET_VERIFY_CB_FUNC 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm X509_STORE_set_verify_cb ,
.Nm X509_STORE_set_verify_cb_func ,
.Nm X509_STORE_set_verify_func
.Nd set verification callback
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In openssl/x509_vfy.h
.Ft void
.Fo X509_STORE_set_verify_cb
.Fa "X509_STORE *st"
.Fa "int (*verify_cb)(int ok, X509_STORE_CTX *ctx)"
.Fc
.Ft void
.Fo X509_STORE_set_verify_cb_func
.Fa "X509_STORE *st"
.Fa "int (*verify_cb)(int ok, X509_STORE_CTX *ctx)"
.Fc
.Ft void
.Fo X509_STORE_set_verify_func
.Fa "X509_STORE *st"
.Fa "int (*verify_func)(X509_STORE_CTX *ctx)"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Fn X509_STORE_set_verify_cb
sets the verification callback of
.Sy ctx
to
.Sy verify_cb ,
overwriting any existing callback.
.Pp
.Fn X509_STORE_set_verify_cb_func
also sets the verification callback but it is implemented as a macro.
.Pp
The verification callback from an
.Vt X509_STORE
is inherited by the corresponding
.Vt X509_STORE_CTX
structure when it is initialized.
This can be used to set the verification callback when the
.Vt X509_STORE_CTX
is otherwise inaccessible (for example during S/MIME verification).
.Pp
.Fn X509_STORE_set_verify_func
sets the final chain verification function for
.Fa st
to
.Fa verify_func .
Its purpose is to go through the chain of certificates and check
that all signatures are valid and that the current time is within
the limits of each certificate's first and last validity time.
The final chain verification function
must return 0 on failure and 1 on success.
If
.Fn X509_STORE_set_verify_func
is not called or called with
.Fa verify_func
set to a
.Dv NULL
pointer, the built-in default function is used.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr X509_STORE_CTX_set_verify_cb 3 ,
.Xr X509_STORE_new 3
.Sh HISTORY
.Fn X509_STORE_set_verify_cb_func
and
.Fn X509_STORE_set_verify_func
first appeared in SSLeay 0.8.0 and have been available since
.Ox 2.4 .
.Pp
.Fn X509_STORE_set_verify_cb
first appeared in OpenSSL 1.0.0 and has been available since
.Ox 4.9 .
