=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

perl5384delta - what is new for perl v5.38.4

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This document describes differences between the 5.38.3 release and the 5.38.4
release.

If you are upgrading from an earlier release such as 5.38.2, first read
L<perl5383delta>, which describes differences between 5.38.2 and 5.38.3.

=head1 Security

=head2 [CVE-2024-56406] Heap buffer overflow vulnerability with tr//

A heap buffer overflow vulnerability was discovered in Perl.

When there are non-ASCII bytes in the left-hand-side of the C<tr> operator,
C<S_do_trans_invmap()> can overflow the destination pointer C<d>.

  $ perl -e '$_ = "\x{FF}" x 1000000; tr/\xFF/\x{100}/;'
  Segmentation fault (core dumped)

It is believed that this vulnerability can enable Denial of Service or
Arbitrary Code Execution attacks on platforms that lack sufficient defenses.

Discovered by: Nathan Mills.

=head1 Incompatible Changes

There are no changes intentionally incompatible with 5.38.3.  If any exist,
they are bugs, and we request that you submit a report.  See L</Reporting Bugs>
below.

=head1 Modules and Pragmata

=head2 Updated Modules and Pragmata

=over 4

=item *

L<Module::CoreList> has been upgraded from version 5.20250118_38 to 5.20250413_38.

=back

=head1 Acknowledgements

Perl 5.38.4 represents approximately 3 months of development since Perl 5.38.3
and contains approximately 1,500 lines of changes across 36 files from 7
authors.

Excluding auto-generated files, documentation and release tools, there were
approximately 640 lines of changes to 5 .pm, .t, .c and .h files.

Perl continues to flourish into its fourth decade thanks to a vibrant community
of users and developers.  The following people are known to have contributed
the improvements that became Perl 5.38.4:

Karl Williamson, Lukas Mai, Max Maischein, Paul Evans, Richard Leach, Steve
Hay, Thibault Duponchelle.

The list above is almost certainly incomplete as it is automatically generated
from version control history.  In particular, it does not include the names of
the (very much appreciated) contributors who reported issues to the Perl bug
tracker.

Many of the changes included in this version originated in the CPAN modules
included in Perl's core.  We're grateful to the entire CPAN community for
helping Perl to flourish.

For a more complete list of all of Perl's historical contributors, please see
the F<AUTHORS> file in the Perl source distribution.

=head1 Reporting Bugs

If you find what you think is a bug, you might check the perl bug database at
L<https://github.com/Perl/perl5/issues>.  There may also be information at
L<https://www.perl.org/>, the Perl Home Page.

If you believe you have an unreported bug, please open an issue at
L<https://github.com/Perl/perl5/issues>.  Be sure to trim your bug down to a
tiny but sufficient test case.

If the bug you are reporting has security implications which make it
inappropriate to send to a public issue tracker, then see
L<perlsec/SECURITY VULNERABILITY CONTACT INFORMATION> for details of how to
report the issue.

=head1 Give Thanks

If you wish to thank the Perl 5 Porters for the work we had done in Perl 5,
you can do so by running the C<perlthanks> program:

    perlthanks

This will send an email to the Perl 5 Porters list with your show of thanks.

=head1 SEE ALSO

The F<Changes> file for an explanation of how to view exhaustive details on
what changed.

The F<INSTALL> file for how to build Perl.

The F<README> file for general stuff.

The F<Artistic> and F<Copying> files for copyright information.

=cut
