=head1 NAME

perl5111delta - what is new for perl v5.11.1

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This document describes differences between the 5.11.0 release and
the 5.11.1 release.

=head1 Incompatible Changes

=over 

=item * 

The boolkeys op moved to the group of hash ops. This breaks binary compatibility.

=item *

C<\s> C<\w> and C<\d> once again have the semantics they had in Perl 5.8.x.


=back

=head1 Core Enhancements

=head2 Add C<package NAME VERSION> syntax

This new syntax allows a module author to set the $VERSION of a namespace
when the namespace is declared with 'package'.  It eliminates the need
for C<our $VERSION = ...> and similar constructs.  E.g.

      package Foo::Bar 1.23;
      # $Foo::Bar::VERSION == 1.23

There are several advantages to this:

=over 

=item *

C<$VERSION> is parsed in I<exactly> the same way as C<use NAME VERSION>

=item *

C<$VERSION> is set at compile time

=item *

Eliminates C<$VERSION = ...> and C<eval $VERSION> clutter

=item *

As it requires VERSION to be a numeric literal or v-string
literal, it can be statically parsed by toolchain modules
without C<eval> the way MM-E<gt>parse_version does for C<$VERSION = ...>

=item * 

Alpha versions with underscores do not need to be quoted; static
parsing will preserve the underscore, but during compilation, Perl
will remove underscores as it does for all numeric literals

It does not break old code with only C<package NAME>, but code that uses
C<package NAME VERSION> will need to be restricted to perl 5.11.X or newer
This is analogous to the change to C<open> from two-args to three-args.
Users requiring the latest Perl will benefit, and perhaps N years from
now it will become standard practice when Perl 5.12 is targeted the way
that 5.6 is today.

=back

=head1 Modules and Pragmata

=head2 Updated Modules

=over 4 

=item *

Upgrade to Test-Simple 0.94

=item *

Upgrade to Storable 2.21

=item *

Upgrade to Pod-Simple 3.08

=item *

Upgrade to Parse-CPAN-Meta 1.40

=item *

Upgrade to ExtUtils-Manifest 1.57

=item *

Upgrade to ExtUtils-CBuilder 0.260301

=item *

Upgrade to CGI.pm-3.48

=item *

Upgrade CPANPLUS to CPAN version 0.89_02

=item *

Upgrade to threads::shared 1.32

=item *

Upgrade ExtUtils::ParseXS to 2.21

=item *

Upgrade File::Path to 2.08 (and add taint.t test)

=item *

Upgrade Module::CoreList to 2.20

=item *

Updated Object::Accessor to0.36

=back

=head1 New Documentation

=over 4

=item *

L<perlpolicy> extends the "Social contract about contributed modules" into
the beginnings of a document on Perl porting policies.

=back

=head1 Changes to Existing Documentation

=over 

=item Documentation for C<$1> in perlvar.pod clarified

=back

=head1 Performance Enhancements

=over 4

=item C<if (%foo)> has been optimized to be faster than C<if (keys %foo)>

=back

=head1 Platform Specific Notes

=over 4

=item Darwin (Mac OS X)

=over 4

=item *

Skip testing the be_BY.CP1131 locale on Darwin 10 (Mac OS X 10.6),
as it's still buggy.

=item *

Correct infelicities in the regexp used to identify buggy locales
on Darwin 8 and 9 (Mac OS X 10.4 and 10.5, respectively).

=back

=item DragonFly BSD

=over 4

=item *

Fix thread library selection [perl #69686]

=back

=item Win32

=over 4

=item *

Initial support for mingw64 is now available

=item *

Various bits of Perl's build infrastructure are no longer converted to win32 line endings at release time. If this hurts you, please speak up.

=back


=back

=head1 Selected Bug Fixes

=over 4

=item *

Perl now properly returns a syntax error instead of segfaulting
if C<each>, C<keys> or C<values> is used without an argument

=item *

C<tell()> now fails properly if called without an argument and when no previous file was read

C<tell()> now returns C<-1>, and sets errno to C<EBADF>, thus restoring the 5.8.x behaviour

=item *

overload no longer implicitly unsets fallback on repeated 'use overload' lines

=item *

POSIX::strftime() can now handle Unicode characters in the format string.

=item *

The Windows select() implementation now supports all empty C<fd_set>s more correctly.

=back

=head1 New or Changed Diagnostics

=over 4


=item *

The 'syntax' category was removed from 5 warnings that should only be in 'deprecated'.

=item *

Three fatal pack/unpack error messages have been normalized to "panic: %s"

=item *

"Unicode character is illegal" has been rephrased to be more accurate

It now reads C<Unicode non-character is illegal in interchange> and the
perldiag documentation has been expanded a bit.

=item *

Perl now defaults to issuing a warning if a deprecated language feature is used.

To disable this feature in a given lexical scope, you should use C<no
warnings 'deprecated';> For information about which language features
are deprecated and explanations of various deprecation warnings, please
see L<perldiag>

=back

=head1 Testing

=over 4

=item *

Significant cleanups to core tests to ensure that language and
interpreter features are not used before they're tested.

=item *

C<make test_porting> now runs a number of important pre-commit checks which might be of use to anyone working on the Perl core.

=item *

F<t/porting/podcheck.t> automatically checks the well-formedness of
POD found in all .pl, .pm and .pod files in the F<MANIFEST>, other than in
dual-lifed modules which are primarily maintained outside the Perl core.

=item *

F<t/porting/manifest.t> now tests that all files listed in MANIFEST are present.

=back

=head1 Known Problems

=over 4

=item Untriaged test crashes on Windows 2000

Several porters have reported mysterious crashes when Perl's entire test suite is run after a build on certain Windows 2000 systems.  When run by hand, the individual tests reportedly work fine.

=item Known test failures on VMS

Perl 5.11.1 fails a small set of core and CPAN tests as of this release.
With luck, that'll be sorted out for 5.11.2

=back

=head1 Errata for 5.11.0

=over

=item The Perl 5.11.0 release notes incorrectly described 'delete local'

=back

=head1 Acknowledgements

Perl 5.11.1 represents approximately 3 weeks development since Perl 5.11.0
contains 22,000 lines of changes across 396 files from 26 authors and committers:

Abigail, Alex Vandiver, brian d foy, Chris Williams, Craig A. Berry,
David Fifield, David Golden, demerphq, Eric Brine, Geoffrey T. Dairiki,
George Greer, H.Merijn Brand, Jan Dubois, Jerry D. Hedden, Jesse Vincent,
Josh ben Jore, Max Maischein, Nicholas Clark, Rafael Garcia-Suarez,
Simon Schubert, Sisyphus, Smylers, Steve Hay, Steve Peters, Vincent Pit
and Yves Orton.

Many of the changes included in this version originated in the CPAN
modules included in Perl's core.  We're grateful to the entire CPAN
community for helping Perl to flourish.

=head1 Reporting Bugs

If you find what you think is a bug, you might check the articles
recently posted to the comp.lang.perl.misc newsgroup and the perl
bug database at http://rt.perl.org/perlbug/ .  There may also be
information at http://www.perl.org/ , the Perl Home Page.

If you believe you have an unreported bug, please run the B<perlbug>
program included with your release.  Be sure to trim your bug down
to a tiny but sufficient test case.  Your bug report, along with the
output of C<perl -V>, will be sent off to perlbug@perl.org to be
analysed by the Perl porting team.

If the bug you are reporting has security implications, which make it
inappropriate to send to a publicly archived mailing list, then please send
it to perl5-security-report@perl.org. This points to a closed subscription
unarchived mailing list, which includes all the core committers, who be able
to help assess the impact of issues, figure out a resolution, and help
co-ordinate the release of patches to mitigate or fix the problem across all
platforms on which Perl is supported. Please only use this address for
security issues in the Perl core, not for modules independently
distributed on CPAN.

=head1 SEE ALSO

The F<Changes> file for an explanation of how to view exhaustive details
on what changed.

The F<INSTALL> file for how to build Perl.

The F<README> file for general stuff.

The F<Artistic> and F<Copying> files for copyright information.

=cut
