=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

perl5383delta - what is new for perl v5.38.3

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This document describes differences between the 5.38.2 release and the 5.38.3
release.

If you are upgrading from an earlier release such as 5.38.1, first read
L<perl5382delta>, which describes differences between 5.38.1 and 5.38.2.

=head1 Incompatible Changes

There are no changes intentionally incompatible with 5.38.2.  If any exist,
they are bugs, and we request that you submit a report.  See L</Reporting Bugs>
below.

=head1 Modules and Pragmata

=head2 Updated Modules and Pragmata

=over 4

=item *

L<DynaLoader> has been upgraded from version 1.54 to 1.54_01.

This fixes an error when building Perl on OS X 10.3.
[L<GH #21751|https://github.com/Perl/perl5/issues/21751>]

=item *

L<Module::CoreList> has been upgraded from version 5.20231129 to 5.20250118_38.

=back

=head1 Documentation

=head2 Changes to Existing Documentation

We have attempted to update the documentation to reflect the changes listed in
this document.  If you find any we have missed, open an issue at
L<https://github.com/Perl/perl5/issues>.

=head1 Testing

Tests were added and changed to reflect the other additions and changes in this
release.

=head1 Selected Bug Fixes

=over 4

=item *

C<use 5.36;> or later didn't enable the post parse reporting of L<Name "%s::%s"
used only once: possible typo|perldiag/"Name "%s::%s" used only once: possible
typo"> warnings when enabling warnings.
[L<GH #21271|https://github.com/Perl/perl5/issues/21271>]

=item *

Fixed a crash or assertion when cleaning up a closure that refers to an outside
C<our> sub.  [L<GH #21067|https://github.com/Perl/perl5/issues/21067>]

=item *

Don't clear the integer flag C<IOK> from lines in the C<< @{"_<$sourcefile"} >>
array when a C<dbstate> op is removed for that line.  This was broken when
fixing [L<GH #19198|https://github.com/Perl/perl5/issues/19198>].
[L<GH #21564|https://github.com/Perl/perl5/issues/21564>]

=item *

Fixed an issue where C<utf8n_to_uvchr()> failed to correctly identify certain
invalid UTF-8 sequences as invalid.  Specifically, sequences that start with
continuation bytes or unassigned bytes could cause unexpected behaviour or a
panic.  This fix ensures that such invalid sequences are now properly detected
and handled.  This correction also resolves related issues in modules that
handle UTF-8 processing, such as L<Encode>.

=item *

Builds with C<-msse> and quadmath on 32-bit x86 systems would crash with a
misaligned access early in the build.
[L<GH #22577|https://github.com/Perl/perl5/issues/22577>]

=item *

Fixed a bug introduced in Perl 5.34 whereby uninitialized data in the
underlying array of an AV after it has been unshifted and resized could lead to
segmentation faults or other errors depending on the data.
[L<GH #21235|https://github.com/Perl/perl5/issues/21235>]

=item *

Fixed an issue where Perl sometimes failed to correctly toggle into a dot radix
locale.  [L<GH #21746|https://github.com/Perl/perl5/issues/21746>]
[L<GH #22176|https://github.com/Perl/perl5/issues/22176>]

=item *

Stopped certain syntax errors from provoking core dumps due to a double free of
an OP.  [L<GH #21724|https://github.com/Perl/perl5/issues/21724>]

=item *

Fixed a double free error or possible memory leak when failing to compile
certain regexps.  [L<GH #21661|https://github.com/Perl/perl5/issues/21661>]

=item *

Fixed the initialization of Perl's querylocale() emulation so that the locale
is set correctly if the environment specifies a non-C locale.
[L<GH #21366|https://github.com/Perl/perl5/issues/21366>]

=back

=head1 Acknowledgements

Perl 5.38.3 represents approximately 14 months of development since Perl 5.38.2
and contains approximately 5,600 lines of changes across 62 files from 22
authors.

Excluding auto-generated files, documentation and release tools, there were
approximately 2,600 lines of changes to 20 .pm, .t, .c and .h files.

Perl continues to flourish into its fourth decade thanks to a vibrant community
of users and developers.  The following people are known to have contributed
the improvements that became Perl 5.38.3:

Anton Voloshin, Chris 'BinGOs' Williams, Dagfinn Ilmari Mannsåker, E. Choroba,
Elvin Aslanov, Graham Knop, James E Keenan, Karen Etheridge, Karl Williamson,
Lukas Mai, Masahiro Honma, Matthew Horsfall, Max Maischein, Paul Evans,
Philippe Bruhat (BooK), Renee Baecker, Ricardo Signes, Richard Leach, Steve
Hay, Thibault Duponchelle, Tony Cook, Yves Orton.

The list above is almost certainly incomplete as it is automatically generated
from version control history.  In particular, it does not include the names of
the (very much appreciated) contributors who reported issues to the Perl bug
tracker.

Many of the changes included in this version originated in the CPAN modules
included in Perl's core.  We're grateful to the entire CPAN community for
helping Perl to flourish.

For a more complete list of all of Perl's historical contributors, please see
the F<AUTHORS> file in the Perl source distribution.

=head1 Reporting Bugs

If you find what you think is a bug, you might check the perl bug database at
L<https://github.com/Perl/perl5/issues>.  There may also be information at
L<http://www.perl.org/>, the Perl Home Page.

If you believe you have an unreported bug, please open an issue at
L<https://github.com/Perl/perl5/issues>.  Be sure to trim your bug down to a
tiny but sufficient test case.

If the bug you are reporting has security implications which make it
inappropriate to send to a public issue tracker, then see
L<perlsec/SECURITY VULNERABILITY CONTACT INFORMATION> for details of how to
report the issue.

=head1 Give Thanks

If you wish to thank the Perl 5 Porters for the work we had done in Perl 5, you
can do so by running the C<perlthanks> program:

    perlthanks

This will send an email to the Perl 5 Porters list with your show of thanks.

=head1 SEE ALSO

The F<Changes> file for an explanation of how to view exhaustive details on
what changed.

The F<INSTALL> file for how to build Perl.

The F<README> file for general stuff.

The F<Artistic> and F<Copying> files for copyright information.

=cut
