
=head1 NAME

perltoc - perl documentation table of contents

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This page provides a brief table of contents for the rest of the Perl
documentation set.  It is meant to be scanned quickly or grepped
through to locate the proper section you're looking for.

=head1 BASIC DOCUMENTATION

=head2 perl - Practical Extraction and Report Language

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

Many usability enhancements, Simplified grammar, Lexical scoping,
Arbitrarily nested data structures, Modularity and reusability,
Object-oriented programming, Embeddable and Extensible, POSIX compliant,
Package constructors and destructors, Multiple simultaneous DBM
implementations, Subroutine definitions may now be autoloaded, Regular
expression enhancements, Innumerable Unbundled Modules, Compilability

=item ENVIRONMENT

=item AUTHOR

=item FILES

=item SEE ALSO

=item DIAGNOSTICS

=item BUGS

=item NOTES

=head2 perlfaq - frequently asked questions about Perl ($Date: 1997/04/24
22:46:06 $)

=item DESCRIPTION

perlfaq: Structural overview of the FAQ, L<perlfaq1>: General Questions
About Perl, L<perlfaq2>: Obtaining and Learning about Perl, L<perlfaq3>:
Programming Tools, L<perlfaq4>: Data Manipulation, L<perlfaq5>: Files and
Formats, L<perlfaq6>: Regexps, L<perlfaq7>: General Perl Language Issues,
L<perlfaq8>: System Interaction, L<perlfaq9>: Networking

=over

=item Where to get this document

=item How to contribute to this document

=item What will happen if you mail your Perl programming problems to the
authors

=back

=item Credits

=item Author and Copyright Information

=over

=item Noncommercial Reproduction

=item Commercial Reproduction

=item Disclaimer

=back

=item Changes

24/April/97, 23/April/97, 25/March/97, 18/March/97, 17/March/97 Version,
Initial Release: 11/March/97

=head2 perlfaq1 - General Questions About Perl ($Revision: 1.2 $, $Date:
1997/04/24 22:43:34 $)

=item DESCRIPTION

=over

=item What is Perl?

=item Who supports Perl?  Who develops it?  Why is it free?

=item Which version of Perl should I use?

=item What are perl4 and perl5?

=item How stable is Perl?

=item Is Perl difficult to learn?

=item How does Perl compare with other languages like Java, Python, REXX,
Scheme, or Tcl?

=item Can I do [task] in Perl?

=item When shouldn't I program in Perl?

=item What's the difference between "perl" and "Perl"?

=item Is it a Perl program or a Perl script?

=item What is a JAPH?

=item Where can I get a list of Larry Wall witticisms?

=item How can I convince my sysadmin/supervisor/employees to use version
(5/5.004/Perl instead of some other language)?

=back

=item AUTHOR AND COPYRIGHT

=head2 perlfaq2 - Obtaining and Learning about Perl ($Revision: 1.2 $,
$Date: 1997/11/30 07:59:32 $)

=item DESCRIPTION

=over

=item What machines support Perl?  Where do I get it?

=item How can I get a binary version of Perl?

=item I don't have a C compiler on my system.  How can I compile perl?

=item I copied the Perl binary from one machine to another, but scripts
don't work.

=item I grabbed the sources and tried to compile but gdbm/dynamic
loading/malloc/linking/... failed.  How do I make it work?

=item What modules and extensions are available for Perl?  What is CPAN? 
What does CPAN/src/... mean?

=item Is there an ISO or ANSI certified version of Perl?

=item Where can I get information on Perl?

=item What are the Perl newsgroups on USENET?  Where do I post questions?

=item Where should I post source code?

=item Perl Books

=item Perl in Magazines

=item Perl on the Net: FTP and WWW Access

=item What mailing lists are there for perl?

MacPerl, Perl5-Porters, NTPerl, Perl-Packrats

=item Archives of comp.lang.perl.misc

=item Perl Training

=item Where can I buy a commercial version of Perl?

=item Where do I send bug reports?

=item What is perl.com?  perl.org?  The Perl Institute?

=item How do I learn about object-oriented Perl programming?

=back

=item AUTHOR AND COPYRIGHT

=head2 perlfaq3 - Programming Tools ($Revision: 1.2 $, $Date: 1997/04/24
22:43:42 $)

=item DESCRIPTION

=over

=item How do I do (anything)?

=item How can I use Perl interactively?

=item Is there a Perl shell?

=item How do I debug my Perl programs?

=item How do I profile my Perl programs?

=item How do I cross-reference my Perl programs?

=item Is there a pretty-printer (formatter) for Perl?

=item Is there a ctags for Perl?

=item Where can I get Perl macros for vi?

=item Where can I get perl-mode for emacs?

=item How can I use curses with Perl?

=item How can I use X or Tk with Perl?

=item How can I generate simple menus without using CGI or Tk?

=item Can I dynamically load C routines into Perl?

=item What is undump?

=item How can I make my Perl program run faster?

=item How can I make my Perl program take less memory?

=item Is it unsafe to return a pointer to local data?

=item How can I free an array or hash so my program shrinks?

=item How can I make my CGI script more efficient?

=item How can I hide the source for my Perl program?

=item How can I compile my Perl program into byte code or C?

=item How can I get '#!perl' to work on [MS-DOS,NT,...]?

=item Can I write useful perl programs on the command line?

=item Why don't perl one-liners work on my DOS/Mac/VMS system?

=item Where can I learn about CGI or Web programming in Perl?

=item Where can I learn about object-oriented Perl programming?

=item Where can I learn about linking C with Perl? [h2xs, xsubpp]

=item I've read perlembed, perlguts, etc., but I can't embed perl in
my C program, what am I doing wrong?

=item When I tried to run my script, I got this message. What does it
mean?

=item What's MakeMaker?

=back

=item AUTHOR AND COPYRIGHT

=head2 perlfaq4 - Data Manipulation ($Revision: 1.2 $, $Date: 1997/04/24
22:43:57 $)

=item DESCRIPTION

=item Data: Numbers

=over

=item Why am I getting long decimals (eg, 19.9499999999999) instead of the
numbers I should be getting (eg, 19.95)?

=item Why isn't my octal data interpreted correctly?

=item Does perl have a round function?	What about ceil() and floor()?
Trig functions?

=item How do I convert bits into ints?

=item How do I multiply matrices?

=item How do I perform an operation on a series of integers?

=item How can I output Roman numerals?

=item Why aren't my random numbers random?

=back

=item Data: Dates

=over

=item How do I find the week-of-the-year/day-of-the-year?

=item How can I compare two date strings?

=item How can I take a string and turn it into epoch seconds?

=item How can I find the Julian Day?

=item Does Perl have a year 2000 problem?

=back

=item Data: Strings

=over

=item How do I validate input?

=item How do I unescape a string?

=item How do I remove consecutive pairs of characters?

=item How do I expand function calls in a string?

=item How do I find matching/nesting anything?

=item How do I reverse a string?

=item How do I expand tabs in a string?

=item How do I reformat a paragraph?

=item How can I access/change the first N letters of a string?

=item How do I change the Nth occurrence of something?

=item How can I count the number of occurrences of a substring within a
string?

=item How do I capitalize all the words on one line?

=item How can I split a [character] delimited string except when inside
[character]? (Comma-separated files)

=item How do I strip blank space from the beginning/end of a string?

=item How do I extract selected columns from a string?

=item How do I find the soundex value of a string?

=item How can I expand variables in text strings?

=item What's wrong with always quoting "$vars"?

=item Why don't my <<HERE documents work?

1. There must be no space after the << part, 2. There (probably) should be
a semicolon at the end, 3. You can't (easily) have any space in front of
the tag

=back

=item Data: Arrays

=over

=item What is the difference between $array[1] and @array[1]?

=item How can I extract just the unique elements of an array?

a) If @in is sorted, and you want @out to be sorted:, b) If you don't know
whether @in is sorted:, c) Like (b), but @in contains only small integers:,
d) A way to do (b) without any loops or greps:, e) Like (d), but @in
contains only small positive integers:

=item How can I tell whether an array contains a certain element?

=item How do I compute the difference of two arrays?  How do I compute the
intersection of two arrays?

=item How do I find the first array element for which a condition is true?

=item How do I handle linked lists?

=item How do I handle circular lists?

=item How do I shuffle an array randomly?

=item How do I process/modify each element of an array?

=item How do I select a random element from an array?

=item How do I permute N elements of a list?

=item How do I sort an array by (anything)?

=item How do I manipulate arrays of bits?

=item Why does defined() return true on empty arrays and hashes?

=back

=item Data: Hashes (Associative Arrays)

=over

=item How do I process an entire hash?

=item What happens if I add or remove keys from a hash while iterating over
it?

=item How do I look up a hash element by value?

=item How can I know how many entries are in a hash?

=item How do I sort a hash (optionally by value instead of key)?

=item How can I always keep my hash sorted?

=item What's the difference between "delete" and "undef" with hashes?

=item Why don't my tied hashes make the defined/exists distinction?

=item How do I reset an each() operation part-way through?

=item How can I get the unique keys from two hashes?

=item How can I store a multidimensional array in a DBM file?

=item How can I make my hash remember the order I put elements into it?

=item Why does passing a subroutine an undefined element in a hash create
it?

=item How can I make the Perl equivalent of a C structure/C++ class/hash or
array of hashes or arrays?

=item How can I use a reference as a hash key?

=back

=item Data: Misc

=over

=item How do I handle binary data correctly?

=item How do I determine whether a scalar is a number/whole/integer/float?

=item How do I keep persistent data across program calls?

=item How do I print out or copy a recursive data structure?

=item How do I define methods for every class/object?

=item How do I verify a credit card checksum?

=back

=item AUTHOR AND COPYRIGHT

=head2 perlfaq5 - Files and Formats ($Revision: 1.2 $, $Date: 1997/04/24
22:44:02 $)

=item DESCRIPTION

=over

=item How do I flush/unbuffer a filehandle?  Why must I do this?

=item How do I change one line in a file/delete a line in a file/insert a
line in the middle of a file/append to the beginning of a file?

=item How do I count the number of lines in a file?

=item How do I make a temporary file name?

=item How can I manipulate fixed-record-length files?

=item How can I make a filehandle local to a subroutine?  How do I pass
filehandles between subroutines?  How do I make an array of filehandles?

=item How can I set up a footer format to be used with write()?

=item How can I write() into a string?

=item How can I output my numbers with commas added?

=item How can I translate tildes (~) in a filename?

=item How come when I open the file read-write it wipes it out?

=item Why do I sometimes get an "Argument list too long" when I use <*>?

=item Is there a leak/bug in glob()?

=item How can I open a file with a leading "E<gt>" or trailing blanks?

=item How can I reliably rename a file?

=item How can I lock a file?

=item What can't I just open(FH, ">file.lock")?

=item I still don't get locking.  I just want to increment the number in
the file.  How can I do this?

=item How do I randomly update a binary file?

=item How do I get a file's timestamp in perl?

=item How do I set a file's timestamp in perl?

=item How do I print to more than one file at once?

=item How can I read in a file by paragraphs?

=item How can I read a single character from a file?  From the keyboard?

=item How can I tell if there's a character waiting on a filehandle?

=item How do I open a file without blocking?

=item How do I create a file only if it doesn't exist?

=item How do I do a C<tail -f> in perl?

=item How do I dup() a filehandle in Perl?

=item How do I close a file descriptor by number?

=item Why can't I use "C:\temp\foo" in DOS paths?  What doesn't
`C:\temp\foo.exe` work?

=item Why doesn't glob("*.*") get all the files?

=item Why does Perl let me delete read-only files?  Why does C<-i> clobber
protected files?  Isn't this a bug in Perl?

=item How do I select a random line from a file?

=back

=item AUTHOR AND COPYRIGHT

=head2 perlfaq6 - Regexps ($Revision: 1.2 $, $Date: 1997/11/30 07:59:32 $)

=item DESCRIPTION

=over

=item How can I hope to use regular expressions without creating illegible
and unmaintainable code?

Comments Outside the Regexp, Comments Inside the Regexp, Different
Delimiters

=item I'm having trouble matching over more than one line.  What's wrong?

=item How can I pull out lines between two patterns that are themselves on
different lines?

=item I put a regular expression into $/ but it didn't work. What's wrong?

=item How do I substitute case insensitively on the LHS, but preserving
case on the RHS?

=item How can I make C<\w> match accented characters?

=item How can I match a locale-smart version of C</[a-zA-Z]/>?

=item How can I quote a variable to use in a regexp?

=item What is C</o> really for?

=item How do I use a regular expression to strip C style comments from a
file?

=item Can I use Perl regular expressions to match balanced text?

=item What does it mean that regexps are greedy?  How can I get around it?

=item  How do I process each word on each line?

=item How can I print out a word-frequency or line-frequency summary?

=item How can I do approximate matching?

=item How do I efficiently match many regular expressions at once?

=item Why don't word-boundary searches with C<\b> work for me?

=item Why does using $&, $`, or $' slow my program down?

=item What good is C<\G> in a regular expression?

=item Are Perl regexps DFAs or NFAs?  Are they POSIX compliant?

=item What's wrong with using grep or map in a void context?

=item How can I match strings with multibyte characters?

=back

=item AUTHOR AND COPYRIGHT

=head2 perlfaq7 - Perl Language Issues ($Revision: 1.2 $, $Date:
1997/04/24 22:44:14 $)

=item DESCRIPTION

=over

=item Can I get a BNF/yacc/RE for the Perl language?

=item What are all these $@%* punctuation signs, and how do I know when to
use them?

=item Do I always/never have to quote my strings or use semicolons and
commas?

=item How do I skip some return values?

=item How do I temporarily block warnings?

=item What's an extension?

=item Why do Perl operators have different precedence than C operators?

=item How do I declare/create a structure?

=item How do I create a module?

=item How do I create a class?

=item How can I tell if a variable is tainted?

=item What's a closure?

=item What is variable suicide and how can I prevent it?

=item How can I pass/return a {Function, FileHandle, Array, Hash, Method,
Regexp}?

Passing Variables and Functions, Passing Filehandles, Passing Regexps,
Passing Methods

=item How do I create a static variable?

=item What's the difference between dynamic and lexical (static) scoping? 
Between local() and my()?

=item How can I access a dynamic variable while a similarly named lexical
is in scope?

=item What's the difference between deep and shallow binding?

=item Why doesn't "local($foo) = <FILE>;" work right?

=item How do I redefine a builtin function, operator, or method?

=item What's the difference between calling a function as &foo and foo()?

=item How do I create a switch or case statement?

=item How can I catch accesses to undefined variables/functions/methods?

=item Why can't a method included in this same file be found?

=item How can I find out my current package?

=item How can I comment out a large block of perl code?

=back

=item AUTHOR AND COPYRIGHT

=head2 perlfaq8 - System Interaction ($Revision: 1.2 $, $Date: 1997/04/24
22:44:19 $)

=item DESCRIPTION

=over

=item How do I find out which operating system I'm running under?

=item How come exec() doesn't return?

=item How do I do fancy stuff with the keyboard/screen/mouse?

Keyboard, Screen, Mouse

=item How do I ask the user for a password?

=item How do I read and write the serial port?

lockfiles, open mode, end of line, flushing output, non-blocking input

=item How do I decode encrypted password files?

=item How do I start a process in the background?

STDIN, STDOUT and STDERR are shared, Signals, Zombies

=item How do I trap control characters/signals?

=item How do I modify the shadow password file on a Unix system?

=item How do I set the time and date?

=item How can I sleep() or alarm() for under a second?

=item How can I measure time under a second?

=item How can I do an atexit() or setjmp()/longjmp()? (Exception handling)

=item Why doesn't my sockets program work under System V (Solaris)? What
does the error message "Protocol not supported" mean?

=item How can I call my system's unique C functions from Perl?

=item Where do I get the include files to do ioctl() or syscall()?

=item Why do setuid perl scripts complain about kernel problems?

=item How can I open a pipe both to and from a command?

=item Why can't I get the output of a command with system()?

=item How can I capture STDERR from an external command?

=item Why doesn't open() return an error when a pipe open fails?

=item What's wrong with using backticks in a void context?

=item How can I call backticks without shell processing?

=item Why can't my script read from STDIN after I gave it EOF (^D on Unix,
^Z on MS-DOS)?

=item How can I convert my shell script to perl?

=item Can I use perl to run a telnet or ftp session?

=item How can I write expect in Perl?

=item Is there a way to hide perl's command line from programs such as
"ps"?

=item I {changed directory, modified my environment} in a perl script.	How
come the change disappeared when I exited the script?  How do I get my
changes to be visible?

Unix, VMS

=item How do I close a process's filehandle without waiting for it to
complete?

=item How do I fork a daemon process?

=item How do I make my program run with sh and csh?

=item How do I find out if I'm running interactively or not?

=item How do I timeout a slow event?

=item How do I set CPU limits?

=item How do I avoid zombies on a Unix system?

=item How do I use an SQL database?

=item How do I make a system() exit on control-C?

=item How do I open a file without blocking?

=item How do I install a CPAN module?

=item How do I keep my own module/library directory?

=item How do I add the directory my program lives in to the module/library
search path?

=item How do I add a directory to my include path at runtime?

=back

=item How do I get one key from the terminal at a time, under POSIX?

=item AUTHOR AND COPYRIGHT

=head2 perlfaq9 - Networking ($Revision: 1.2 $, $Date: 1997/04/24 22:44:29
$)

=item DESCRIPTION

=over

=item My CGI script runs from the command line but not the browser.  Can
you help me fix it?

=item How do I remove HTML from a string?

=item How do I extract URLs?

=item How do I download a file from the user's machine?  How do I open a
file on another machine?

=item How do I make a pop-up menu in HTML?

=item How do I fetch an HTML file?

=item how do I decode or create those %-encodings on the web?

=item How do I redirect to another page?

=item How do I put a password on my web pages?

=item How do I edit my .htpasswd and .htgroup files with Perl?

=item How do I make sure users can't enter values into a form that cause my
CGI script to do bad things?

=item How do I parse an email header?

=item How do I decode a CGI form?

=item How do I check a valid email address?

=item How do I decode a MIME/BASE64 string?

=item How do I return the user's email address?

=item How do I send/read mail?

=item How do I find out my hostname/domainname/IP address?

=item How do I fetch a news article or the active newsgroups?

=item How do I fetch/put an FTP file?

=item How can I do RPC in Perl?

=back

=item AUTHOR AND COPYRIGHT

=head2 perldelta - what's new for perl5.004

=item DESCRIPTION

=item Supported Environments

=item Core Changes

=over

=item List assignment to %ENV works

=item "Can't locate Foo.pm in @INC" error now lists @INC

=item Compilation option: Binary compatibility with 5.003

=item $PERL5OPT environment variable

=item Limitations on B<-M>, B<-m>, and B<-T> options

=item More precise warnings

=item Deprecated: Inherited C<AUTOLOAD> for non-methods

=item Previously deprecated %OVERLOAD is no longer usable

=item Subroutine arguments created only when they're modified

=item Group vector changeable with C<$)>

=item Fixed parsing of $$<digit>, &$<digit>, etc.

=item No resetting of $. on implicit close

=item C<wantarray> may return undef

=item Changes to tainting checks

No glob() or <*>, No spawning if tainted $CDPATH, $ENV, $BASH_ENV, No
spawning if tainted $TERM doesn't look like a terminal name

=item New Opcode module and revised Safe module

=item Embedding improvements

=item Internal change: FileHandle class based on IO::* classes

=item Internal change: PerlIO abstraction interface

=item New and changed syntax

$coderef->(PARAMS)

=item New and changed builtin constants

__PACKAGE__

=item New and changed builtin variables

$^E, $^H, $^M

=item New and changed builtin functions

delete on slices, flock, printf and sprintf, keys as an lvalue, my() in
Control Structures, pack() and unpack(), sysseek(), use VERSION, use Module
VERSION LIST, prototype(FUNCTION), srand, $_ as Default, C<m//gc> does not
reset search position on failure, C<m//x> ignores whitespace before ?*+{},
nested C<sub{}> closures work now, formats work right on changing lexicals

=item New builtin methods

isa(CLASS), can(METHOD), VERSION( [NEED] )

=item TIEHANDLE now supported

TIEHANDLE classname, LIST, PRINT this, LIST, PRINTF this, LIST, READ this
LIST, READLINE this, GETC this, DESTROY this

=item Malloc enhancements

-DDEBUGGING_MSTATS, -DPERL_EMERGENCY_SBRK, -DPACK_MALLOC, -DTWO_POT_OPTIMIZE

=item Miscellaneous efficiency enhancements

=back

=item Support for More Operating Systems

=over

=item Win32

=item Plan 9

=item QNX

=item AmigaOS

=back

=item Pragmata

use autouse MODULE => qw(sub1 sub2 sub3), use blib, use blib 'dir', use
constant NAME => VALUE, use locale, use ops, use vmsish

=item Modules

=over

=item Required Updates

=item Installation directories

=item Module information summary

=item Fcntl

=item IO

=item Math::Complex

=item Math::Trig

=item DB_File

=item Net::Ping

=item Object-oriented overrides for builtin operators

=back

=item Utility Changes

=over

=item pod2html

Sends converted HTML to standard output

=item xsubpp

C<void> XSUBs now default to returning nothing

=back

=item C Language API Changes

C<gv_fetchmethod> and C<perl_call_sv>, C<perl_eval_pv>, Extended API for
manipulating hashes

=item Documentation Changes

L<perldelta>, L<perlfaq>, L<perllocale>, L<perltoot>, L<perlapio>,
L<perlmodlib>, L<perldebug>, L<perlsec>

=item New Diagnostics

"my" variable %s masks earlier declaration in same scope, %s argument is
not a HASH element or slice, Allocation too large: %lx, Allocation too
large, Applying %s to %s will act on scalar(%s), Attempt to free
nonexistent shared string, Attempt to use reference as lvalue in substr,
Can't redefine active sort subroutine %s, Can't use bareword ("%s") as %s
ref while "strict refs" in use, Cannot resolve method `%s' overloading `%s'
in package `%s', Constant subroutine %s redefined, Constant subroutine %s
undefined, Copy method did not return a reference, Died, Exiting
pseudo-block via %s, Identifier too long, Illegal character %s (carriage
return), Illegal switch in PERL5OPT: %s, Integer overflow in hex number,
Integer overflow in octal number, internal error: glob failed, Invalid
conversion in %s: "%s", Invalid type in pack: '%s', Invalid type in unpack:
'%s', Name "%s::%s" used only once: possible typo, Null picture in
formline, Offset outside string, Out of memory!, Out of memory during
request for %s, panic: frexp, Possible attempt to put comments in qw()
list, Possible attempt to separate words with commas, Scalar value @%s{%s}
better written as $%s{%s}, Stub found while resolving method `%s'
overloading `%s' in package `%s', Too late for "B<-T>" option, untie
attempted while %d inner references still exist, Unrecognized character %s,
Unsupported function fork, Use of "$$<digit>" to mean "${$}<digit>" is
deprecated, Value of %s can be "0"; test with defined(), Variable "%s" may
be unavailable, Variable "%s" will not stay shared, Warning: something's
wrong, Ill-formed logical name |%s| in prime_env_iter, Got an error from
DosAllocMem, Malformed PERLLIB_PREFIX, PERL_SH_DIR too long, Process
terminated by SIG%s

=item BUGS

=item SEE ALSO

=item HISTORY

=head2 perldata - Perl data types

=item DESCRIPTION

=over

=item Variable names

=item Context

=item Scalar values

=item Scalar value constructors

=item List value constructors

=item Typeglobs and Filehandles

=back

=head2 perlsyn - Perl syntax

=item DESCRIPTION

=over

=item Declarations

=item Simple statements

=item Compound statements

=item Loop Control

=item For Loops

=item Foreach Loops

=item Basic BLOCKs and Switch Statements

=item Goto

=item PODs: Embedded Documentation

=item Plain Old Comments (Not!)

=back

=head2 perlop - Perl operators and precedence

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=over

=item Terms and List Operators (Leftward)

=item The Arrow Operator

=item Auto-increment and Auto-decrement

=item Exponentiation

=item Symbolic Unary Operators

=item Binding Operators

=item Multiplicative Operators

=item Additive Operators

=item Shift Operators

=item Named Unary Operators

=item Relational Operators

=item Equality Operators

=item Bitwise And

=item Bitwise Or and Exclusive Or

=item C-style Logical And

=item C-style Logical Or

=item Range Operator

=item Conditional Operator

=item Assignment Operators

=item Comma Operator

=item List Operators (Rightward)

=item Logical Not

=item Logical And

=item Logical or and Exclusive Or

=item C Operators Missing From Perl

unary &, unary *, (TYPE)

=item Quote and Quote-like Operators

=item Regexp Quote-Like Operators

?PATTERN?, m/PATTERN/gimosx, /PATTERN/gimosx, q/STRING/, C<'STRING'>,
qq/STRING/, "STRING", qx/STRING/, `STRING`, qw/STRING/,
s/PATTERN/REPLACEMENT/egimosx, tr/SEARCHLIST/REPLACEMENTLIST/cds,
y/SEARCHLIST/REPLACEMENTLIST/cds

=item I/O Operators

=item Constant Folding

=item Integer Arithmetic

=item Floating-point Arithmetic

=back

=head2 perlre - Perl regular expressions

=item DESCRIPTION

i, m, s, x

=over

=item Regular Expressions

(?#text), (?:regexp), (?=regexp), (?!regexp), (?imsx)

=item Backtracking

=item Version 8 Regular Expressions

=item WARNING on \1 vs $1

=item SEE ALSO

=back

=head2 perlrun - how to execute the Perl interpreter

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=over

=item #! and quoting on non-Unix systems

OS/2, MS-DOS, Win95/NT, Macintosh

=item Switches

B<-0>[I<digits>], B<-a>, B<-c>, B<-d>, B<-d:>I<foo>, B<-D>I<number>,
B<-D>I<list>, B<-e> I<commandline>, B<-F>I<pattern>, B<-h>,
B<-i>[I<extension>], B<-I>I<directory>, B<-l>[I<octnum>],
B<-m>[B<->]I<module>, B<-M>[B<->]I<module>, B<-M>[B<->]I<'module ...'>,
B<-[mM]>[B<->]I<module=arg[,arg]...>, B<-n>, B<-p>, B<-P>, B<-s>, B<-S>,
B<-T>, B<-u>, B<-U>, B<-v>, B<-V>, B<-V:>I<name>, B<-w>, B<-x> I<directory>

=back

=item ENVIRONMENT

HOME, LOGDIR, PATH, PERL5LIB, PERL5OPT, PERLLIB, PERL5DB, PERL5SHELL
(specific to WIN32 port), PERL_DEBUG_MSTATS, PERL_DESTRUCT_LEVEL

=head2 perlfunc - Perl builtin functions

=item DESCRIPTION

 I<THERE IS NO GENERAL RULE FOR CONVERTING A LIST INTO A SCALAR!>

=over

=item Perl Functions by Category

Functions for SCALARs or strings, Regular expressions and pattern matching,
Numeric functions, Functions for real @ARRAYs, Functions for list data,
Functions for real %HASHes, Input and output functions, Functions for fixed
length data or records, Functions for filehandles, files, or directories,
Keywords related to the control flow of your perl program, Keywords related
to scoping, Miscellaneous functions, Functions for processes and process
groups, Keywords related to perl modules, Keywords related to classes and
object-orientedness, Low-level socket functions, System V interprocess
communication functions, Fetching user and group info, Fetching network
info, Time-related functions, Functions new in perl5, Functions obsoleted
in perl5

=item Alphabetical Listing of Perl Functions

-I<X> FILEHANDLE, -I<X> EXPR, -I<X>, abs VALUE, abs, accept
NEWSOCKET,GENERICSOCKET, alarm SECONDS, alarm, atan2 Y,X, bind SOCKET,NAME,
binmode FILEHANDLE, bless REF,CLASSNAME, bless REF, caller EXPR, caller,
chdir EXPR, chmod LIST, chomp VARIABLE, chomp LIST, chomp, chop VARIABLE,
chop LIST, chop, chown LIST, chr NUMBER, chr, chroot FILENAME, chroot,
close FILEHANDLE, closedir DIRHANDLE, connect SOCKET,NAME, continue BLOCK,
cos EXPR, crypt PLAINTEXT,SALT, dbmclose HASH, dbmopen HASH,DBNAME,MODE,
defined EXPR, defined, delete EXPR, die LIST, do BLOCK, do
SUBROUTINE(LIST), do EXPR, dump LABEL, each HASH, eof FILEHANDLE, eof (),
eof, eval EXPR, eval BLOCK, exec LIST, exists EXPR, exit EXPR, exp EXPR,
exp, fcntl FILEHANDLE,FUNCTION,SCALAR, fileno FILEHANDLE, flock
FILEHANDLE,OPERATION, fork, format, formline PICTURE,LIST, getc FILEHANDLE,
getc, getlogin, getpeername SOCKET, getpgrp PID, getppid, getpriority
WHICH,WHO, getpwnam NAME, getgrnam NAME, gethostbyname NAME, getnetbyname
NAME, getprotobyname NAME, getpwuid UID, getgrgid GID, getservbyname
NAME,PROTO, gethostbyaddr ADDR,ADDRTYPE, getnetbyaddr ADDR,ADDRTYPE,
getprotobynumber NUMBER, getservbyport PORT,PROTO, getpwent, getgrent,
gethostent, getnetent, getprotoent, getservent, setpwent, setgrent,
sethostent STAYOPEN, setnetent STAYOPEN, setprotoent STAYOPEN, setservent
STAYOPEN, endpwent, endgrent, endhostent, endnetent, endprotoent,
endservent, getsockname SOCKET, getsockopt SOCKET,LEVEL,OPTNAME, glob EXPR,
glob, gmtime EXPR, goto LABEL, goto EXPR, goto &NAME, grep BLOCK LIST, grep
EXPR,LIST, hex EXPR, hex, import, index STR,SUBSTR,POSITION, index
STR,SUBSTR, int EXPR, int, ioctl FILEHANDLE,FUNCTION,SCALAR, join
EXPR,LIST, keys HASH, kill LIST, last LABEL, last, lc EXPR, lc, lcfirst
EXPR, lcfirst, length EXPR, length, link OLDFILE,NEWFILE, listen
SOCKET,QUEUESIZE, local EXPR, localtime EXPR, log EXPR, log, lstat
FILEHANDLE, lstat EXPR, lstat, m//, map BLOCK LIST, map EXPR,LIST, mkdir
FILENAME,MODE, msgctl ID,CMD,ARG, msgget KEY,FLAGS, msgsnd ID,MSG,FLAGS,
msgrcv ID,VAR,SIZE,TYPE,FLAGS, my EXPR, next LABEL, next, no Module LIST,
oct EXPR, oct, open FILEHANDLE,EXPR, open FILEHANDLE, opendir
DIRHANDLE,EXPR, ord EXPR, ord, pack TEMPLATE,LIST, package NAMESPACE, pipe
READHANDLE,WRITEHANDLE, pop ARRAY, pop, pos SCALAR, pos, print FILEHANDLE
LIST, print LIST, print, printf FILEHANDLE FORMAT, LIST, printf FORMAT,
LIST, prototype FUNCTION, push ARRAY,LIST, q/STRING/, qq/STRING/,
qx/STRING/, qw/STRING/, quotemeta EXPR, quotemeta, rand EXPR, rand, read
FILEHANDLE,SCALAR,LENGTH,OFFSET, read FILEHANDLE,SCALAR,LENGTH, readdir
DIRHANDLE, readlink EXPR, readlink, recv SOCKET,SCALAR,LEN,FLAGS, redo
LABEL, redo, ref EXPR, ref, rename OLDNAME,NEWNAME, require EXPR, require,
reset EXPR, reset, return EXPR, return, reverse LIST, rewinddir DIRHANDLE,
rindex STR,SUBSTR,POSITION, rindex STR,SUBSTR, rmdir FILENAME, rmdir, s///,
scalar EXPR, seek FILEHANDLE,POSITION,WHENCE, seekdir DIRHANDLE,POS, select
FILEHANDLE, select, select RBITS,WBITS,EBITS,TIMEOUT, semctl
ID,SEMNUM,CMD,ARG, semget KEY,NSEMS,FLAGS, semop KEY,OPSTRING, send
SOCKET,MSG,FLAGS,TO, send SOCKET,MSG,FLAGS, setpgrp PID,PGRP, setpriority
WHICH,WHO,PRIORITY, setsockopt SOCKET,LEVEL,OPTNAME,OPTVAL, shift ARRAY,
shift, shmctl ID,CMD,ARG, shmget KEY,SIZE,FLAGS, shmread ID,VAR,POS,SIZE,
shmwrite ID,STRING,POS,SIZE, shutdown SOCKET,HOW, sin EXPR, sin, sleep
EXPR, sleep, socket SOCKET,DOMAIN,TYPE,PROTOCOL, socketpair
SOCKET1,SOCKET2,DOMAIN,TYPE,PROTOCOL, sort SUBNAME LIST, sort BLOCK LIST,
sort LIST, splice ARRAY,OFFSET,LENGTH,LIST, splice ARRAY,OFFSET,LENGTH,
splice ARRAY,OFFSET, split /PATTERN/,EXPR,LIMIT, split /PATTERN/,EXPR,
split /PATTERN/, split, sprintf FORMAT, LIST, sqrt EXPR, sqrt, srand EXPR,
srand, stat FILEHANDLE, stat EXPR, stat, study SCALAR, study, sub BLOCK,
sub NAME, sub NAME BLOCK, substr EXPR,OFFSET,LEN, substr EXPR,OFFSET,
symlink OLDFILE,NEWFILE, syscall LIST, sysopen FILEHANDLE,FILENAME,MODE,
sysopen FILEHANDLE,FILENAME,MODE,PERMS, sysread
FILEHANDLE,SCALAR,LENGTH,OFFSET, sysread FILEHANDLE,SCALAR,LENGTH, sysseek
FILEHANDLE,POSITION,WHENCE, system LIST, syswrite
FILEHANDLE,SCALAR,LENGTH,OFFSET, syswrite FILEHANDLE,SCALAR,LENGTH, tell
FILEHANDLE, tell, telldir DIRHANDLE, tie VARIABLE,CLASSNAME,LIST, tied
VARIABLE, time, times, tr///, truncate FILEHANDLE,LENGTH, truncate
EXPR,LENGTH, uc EXPR, uc, ucfirst EXPR, ucfirst, umask EXPR, umask, undef
EXPR, undef, unlink LIST, unlink, unpack TEMPLATE,EXPR, untie VARIABLE,
unshift ARRAY,LIST, use Module LIST, use Module, use Module VERSION LIST,
use VERSION, utime LIST, values HASH, vec EXPR,OFFSET,BITS, wait, waitpid
PID,FLAGS, wantarray, warn LIST, write FILEHANDLE, write EXPR, write, y///

=back

=head2 perlvar - Perl predefined variables

=item DESCRIPTION

=over

=item Predefined Names

$ARG, $_, $E<lt>I<digit>E<gt>, $MATCH, $&, $PREMATCH, $`, $POSTMATCH, $',
$LAST_PAREN_MATCH, $+, $MULTILINE_MATCHING, $*, input_line_number HANDLE
EXPR, $INPUT_LINE_NUMBER, $NR, $, input_record_separator HANDLE EXPR,
$INPUT_RECORD_SEPARATOR, $RS, $/, autoflush HANDLE EXPR, $OUTPUT_AUTOFLUSH,
$|, output_field_separator HANDLE EXPR, $OUTPUT_FIELD_SEPARATOR, $OFS, $,,
output_record_separator HANDLE EXPR, $OUTPUT_RECORD_SEPARATOR, $ORS, $\,
$LIST_SEPARATOR, $", $SUBSCRIPT_SEPARATOR, $SUBSEP, $;, $OFMT, $#,
format_page_number HANDLE EXPR, $FORMAT_PAGE_NUMBER, $%,
format_lines_per_page HANDLE EXPR, $FORMAT_LINES_PER_PAGE, $=,
format_lines_left HANDLE EXPR, $FORMAT_LINES_LEFT, $-, format_name HANDLE
EXPR, $FORMAT_NAME, $~, format_top_name HANDLE EXPR, $FORMAT_TOP_NAME, $^,
format_line_break_characters HANDLE EXPR, $FORMAT_LINE_BREAK_CHARACTERS,
$:, format_formfeed HANDLE EXPR, $FORMAT_FORMFEED, $^L, $ACCUMULATOR, $^A,
$CHILD_ERROR, $?, $OS_ERROR, $ERRNO, $!, $EXTENDED_OS_ERROR, $^E,
$EVAL_ERROR, $@, $PROCESS_ID, $PID, $$, $REAL_USER_ID, $UID, $<,
$EFFECTIVE_USER_ID, $EUID, $>, $REAL_GROUP_ID, $GID, $(,
$EFFECTIVE_GROUP_ID, $EGID, $), $PROGRAM_NAME, $0, $[, $PERL_VERSION, $],
$DEBUGGING, $^D, $SYSTEM_FD_MAX, $^F, $^H, $INPLACE_EDIT, $^I, $OSNAME,
$^O, $PERLDB, $^P, $BASETIME, $^T, $WARNING, $^W, $EXECUTABLE_NAME, $^X,
$ARGV, @ARGV, @INC, %INC, $ENV{expr}, $SIG{expr}, $^M

=back

=head2 perlsub - Perl subroutines

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=over

=item Private Variables via my()

=item Temporary Values via local()

=item Passing Symbol Table Entries (typeglobs)

=item Pass by Reference

=item Prototypes

=item Constant Functions

=item Overriding Builtin Functions

=item Autoloading

=back

=item SEE ALSO

=head2 perlmod - Perl modules (packages and symbol tables)

=item DESCRIPTION

=over

=item Packages

=item Symbol Tables

=item Package Constructors and Destructors

=item Perl Classes

=item Perl Modules

=back

=item SEE ALSO

=head2 perlmodlib - constructing new Perl modules and finding existing ones

=item DESCRIPTION

=item THE PERL MODULE LIBRARY

=over

=item Pragmatic Modules

use autouse MODULE => qw(sub1 sub2 sub3), blib, diagnostics, integer, less,
lib, locale, ops, overload, sigtrap, strict, subs, vmsish, vars

=item Standard Modules

AnyDBM_File, AutoLoader, AutoSplit, Benchmark, CPAN, CPAN::FirstTime,
CPAN::Nox, Carp, Class::Struct, Config, Cwd, DB_File, Devel::SelfStubber,
DirHandle, DynaLoader, English, Env, Exporter, ExtUtils::Embed,
ExtUtils::Install, ExtUtils::Liblist, ExtUtils::MM_OS2, ExtUtils::MM_Unix,
ExtUtils::MM_VMS, ExtUtils::MakeMaker, ExtUtils::Manifest,
ExtUtils::Mkbootstrap, ExtUtils::Mksymlists, ExtUtils::testlib, Fcntl,
File::Basename, File::CheckTree, File::Compare, File::Copy, File::Find,
File::Path, File::stat, FileCache, FileHandle, FindBin, GDBM_File,
Getopt::Long, Getopt::Std, I18N::Collate, IO, IO::File, IO::Handle,
IO::Pipe, IO::Seekable, IO::Select, IO::Socket, IPC::Open2, IPC::Open3,
Math::BigFloat, Math::BigInt, Math::Complex, Math::Trig, NDBM_File,
Net::Ping, Net::hostent, Net::netent, Net::protoent, Net::servent, Opcode,
Pod::Text, POSIX, SDBM_File, Safe, Search::Dict, SelectSaver, SelfLoader,
Shell, Socket, Symbol, Sys::Hostname, Sys::Syslog, Term::Cap,
Term::Complete, Term::ReadLine, Test::Harness, Text::Abbrev,
Text::ParseWords, Text::Soundex, Text::Tabs, Text::Wrap, Tie::Hash,
Tie::RefHash, Tie::Scalar, Tie::SubstrHash, Time::Local, Time::gmtime,
Time::localtime, Time::tm, UNIVERSAL, User::grent, User::pwent

=item Extension Modules

=back

=item CPAN

Language Extensions and Documentation Tools, Development Support, Operating
System Interfaces, Networking, Device Control (modems) and InterProcess
Communication, Data Types and Data Type Utilities, Database Interfaces,
User Interfaces, Interfaces to / Emulations of Other Programming Languages,
File Names, File Systems and File Locking (see also File Handles), String
Processing, Language Text Processing, Parsing, and Searching, Option,
Argument, Parameter, and Configuration File Processing,
Internationalization and Locale, Authentication, Security, and Encryption,
World Wide Web, HTML, HTTP, CGI, MIME, Server and Daemon Utilities,
Archiving and Compression, Images, Pixmap and Bitmap Manipulation, Drawing,
and Graphing, Mail and Usenet News, Control Flow Utilities (callbacks and
exceptions etc), File Handle and Input/Output Stream Utilities,
Miscellaneous Modules, Africa, Asia, Australasia, Europe, North America,
South America

=item Modules: Creation, Use, and Abuse

=over

=item Guidelines for Module Creation

Do similar modules already exist in some form?, Try to design the new
module to be easy to extend and reuse, Some simple style guidelines, Select
what to export, Select a name for the module, Have you got it right?,
README and other Additional Files, A description of the
module/package/extension etc, A copyright notice - see below, Prerequisites
- what else you may need to have, How to build it - possible changes to
Makefile.PL etc, How to install it, Recent changes in this release,
especially incompatibilities, Changes / enhancements you plan to make in
the future, Adding a Copyright Notice, Give the module a
version/issue/release number, How to release and distribute a module, Take
care when changing a released module

=item Guidelines for Converting Perl 4 Library Scripts into Modules

There is no requirement to convert anything, Consider the implications,
Make the most of the opportunity, The pl2pm utility will get you started,
Adds the standard Module prologue lines, Converts package specifiers from '
to ::, Converts die(...) to croak(...), Several other minor changes

=item Guidelines for Reusing Application Code

Complete applications rarely belong in the Perl Module Library, Many
applications contain some perl code which could be reused, Break-out the
reusable code into one or more separate module files, Take the opportunity
to reconsider and redesign the interfaces, In some cases the 'application'
can then be reduced to a small

=back

=item NOTE

=head2 perlform - Perl formats

=item DESCRIPTION

=over

=item Format Variables

=back

=item NOTES

=over

=item Footers

=item Accessing Formatting Internals

=back

=item WARNINGS

=head2 perllocale - Perl locale handling (internationalization and
localization)

=item DESCRIPTION

=item PREPARING TO USE LOCALES

=item USING LOCALES

=over

=item The use locale pragma

=item The setlocale function

=item The localeconv function

=back

=item LOCALE CATEGORIES

=over

=item Category LC_COLLATE: Collation

=item Category LC_CTYPE: Character Types

=item Category LC_NUMERIC: Numeric Formatting

=item Category LC_MONETARY: Formatting of monetary amounts

=item LC_TIME

=item Other categories

=back

=item SECURITY

B<Comparison operators> (C<lt>, C<le>, C<ge>, C<gt> and C<cmp>):,
B<Case-mapping interpolation> (with C<\l>, C<\L>, C<\u> or <\U>),
B<Matching operator> (C<m//>):, B<Substitution operator> (C<s///>):,
B<In-memory formatting function> (sprintf()):, B<Output formatting
functions> (printf() and write()):, B<Case-mapping functions> (lc(),
lcfirst(), uc(), ucfirst()):, B<POSIX locale-dependent functions>
(localeconv(), strcoll(),strftime(), strxfrm()):, B<POSIX character class
tests> (isalnum(), isalpha(), isdigit(),isgraph(), islower(), isprint(),
ispunct(), isspace(), isupper(),
isxdigit()):

=item ENVIRONMENT

PERL_BADLANG, LC_ALL, LC_CTYPE, LC_COLLATE, LC_MONETARY, LC_NUMERIC,
LC_TIME, LANG

=item NOTES

=over

=item Backward compatibility

=item I18N:Collate obsolete

=item Sort speed and memory use impacts

=item write() and LC_NUMERIC

=item Freely available locale definitions

=item I18n and l10n

=item An imperfect standard

=back

=item BUGS

=over

=item Broken systems

=back

=item SEE ALSO

=item HISTORY

=head2 perlref - Perl references and nested data structures

=item DESCRIPTION

=over

=item Symbolic references

=item Not-so-symbolic references

=back

=item WARNING

=item SEE ALSO

=head2 perldsc - Perl Data Structures Cookbook

=item DESCRIPTION

arrays of arrays, hashes of arrays, arrays of hashes, hashes of hashes,
more elaborate constructs

=item REFERENCES

=item COMMON MISTAKES

=item CAVEAT ON PRECEDENCE

=item WHY YOU SHOULD ALWAYS C<use strict>

=item DEBUGGING

=item CODE EXAMPLES

=item LISTS OF LISTS

=over

=item Declaration of a LIST OF LISTS

=item Generation of a LIST OF LISTS

=item Access and Printing of a LIST OF LISTS

=back

=item HASHES OF LISTS

=over

=item Declaration of a HASH OF LISTS

=item Generation of a HASH OF LISTS

=item Access and Printing of a HASH OF LISTS

=back

=item LISTS OF HASHES

=over

=item Declaration of a LIST OF HASHES

=item Generation of a LIST OF HASHES

=item Access and Printing of a LIST OF HASHES

=back

=item HASHES OF HASHES

=over

=item Declaration of a HASH OF HASHES

=item Generation of a HASH OF HASHES

=item Access and Printing of a HASH OF HASHES

=back

=item MORE ELABORATE RECORDS

=over

=item Declaration of MORE ELABORATE RECORDS

=item Declaration of a HASH OF COMPLEX RECORDS

=item Generation of a HASH OF COMPLEX RECORDS

=back

=item Database Ties

=item SEE ALSO

=item AUTHOR

=head2 perllol, perlLoL - Manipulating Lists of Lists in Perl

=item DESCRIPTION

=item Declaration and Access of Lists of Lists

=item Growing Your Own

=item Access and Printing

=item Slices

=item SEE ALSO

=item AUTHOR

=head2 perltoot - Tom's object-oriented tutorial for perl

=item DESCRIPTION

=item Creating a Class

=over

=item Object Representation

=item Class Interface

=item Constructors and Instance Methods

=item Planning for the Future: Better Constructors

=item Destructors

=item Other Object Methods

=back

=item Class Data

=over

=item Accessing Class Data

=item Debugging Methods

=item Class Destructors

=item Documenting the Interface

=back

=item Aggregation

=item Inheritance

=over

=item Overridden Methods

=item Multiple Inheritance

=item UNIVERSAL: The Root of All Objects

=back

=item Alternate Object Representations

=over

=item Arrays as Objects

=item Closures as Objects

=back

=item AUTOLOAD: Proxy Methods

=over

=item Autoloaded Data Methods

=item Inherited Autoloaded Data Methods

=back

=item Metaclassical Tools

=over

=item Class::Struct

=item Data Members as Variables

=item NOTES

=item Object Terminology

=back

=item SEE ALSO

=item COPYRIGHT

=over

=item Acknowledgments

=back

=head2 perlobj - Perl objects

=item DESCRIPTION

=over

=item An Object is Simply a Reference

=item A Class is Simply a Package

=item A Method is Simply a Subroutine

=item Method Invocation

=item Default UNIVERSAL methods

isa(CLASS), can(METHOD), VERSION( [NEED] )

=item Destructors

=item WARNING

=item Summary

=item Two-Phased Garbage Collection

=back

=item SEE ALSO

=head2 perltie - how to hide an object class in a simple variable

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=over

=item Tying Scalars

TIESCALAR classname, LIST, FETCH this, STORE this, value, DESTROY this

=item Tying Arrays

TIEARRAY classname, LIST, FETCH this, index, STORE this, index, value,
DESTROY this

=item Tying Hashes

USER, HOME, CLOBBER, LIST, TIEHASH classname, LIST, FETCH this, key, STORE
this, key, value, DELETE this, key, CLEAR this, EXISTS this, key, FIRSTKEY
this, NEXTKEY this, lastkey, DESTROY this

=item Tying FileHandles

TIEHANDLE classname, LIST, PRINT this, LIST, PRINTF this, LIST, READ this
LIST, READLINE this, GETC this, DESTROY this

=item The C<untie> Gotcha

=back

=item SEE ALSO

=item BUGS

=item AUTHOR

=head2 perlbot - Bag'o Object Tricks (the BOT)

=item DESCRIPTION

=item OO SCALING TIPS

=item INSTANCE VARIABLES

=item SCALAR INSTANCE VARIABLES

=item INSTANCE VARIABLE INHERITANCE

=item OBJECT RELATIONSHIPS

=item OVERRIDING SUPERCLASS METHODS

=item USING RELATIONSHIP WITH SDBM

=item THINKING OF CODE REUSE

=item CLASS CONTEXT AND THE OBJECT

=item INHERITING A CONSTRUCTOR

=item DELEGATION

=head2 perlipc - Perl interprocess communication (signals, fifos, pipes,
safe subprocesses, sockets, and semaphores)

=item DESCRIPTION

=item Signals

=item Named Pipes

=item Using open() for IPC

=over

=item Filehandles

=item Background Processes

=item Complete Dissociation of Child from Parent

=item Safe Pipe Opens

=item Bidirectional Communication with Another Process

=back

=item Sockets: Client/Server Communication

=over

=item Internet TCP Clients and Servers

=item Unix-Domain TCP Clients and Servers

=back

=item TCP Clients with IO::Socket

=over

=item A Simple Client

C<Proto>, C<PeerAddr>, C<PeerPort>

=item A Webget Client

=item Interactive Client with IO::Socket

=back

=item TCP Servers with IO::Socket

Proto, LocalPort, Listen, Reuse

=item UDP: Message Passing

=item SysV IPC

=item NOTES

=item BUGS

=item AUTHOR

=item SEE ALSO

=head2 perldebug - Perl debugging

=item DESCRIPTION

=item The Perl Debugger

=over

=item Debugger Commands

h [command], p expr, x expr, V [pkg [vars]], X [vars], T, s [expr], n
[expr], E<lt>CRE<gt>, c [line|sub], l, l min+incr, l min-max, l line, l
subname, -, w [line], f filename, /pattern/, ?pattern?, L, S [[!]pattern],
t, t expr, b [line] [condition], b subname [condition], b postpone subname
[condition], b load filename, b compile subname, d [line], D, a [line]
command, A, O [opt[=val]] [opt"val"] [opt?].., C<recallCommand>,
C<ShellBang>, C<pager>, C<tkRunning>, C<signalLevel>, C<warnLevel>,
C<dieLevel>, C<AutoTrace>, C<LineInfo>, C<inhibit_exit>, C<PrintRet>,
C<ornaments>, C<frame>, C<maxTraceLen>, C<arrayDepth>, C<hashDepth>,
C<compactDump>, C<veryCompact>, C<globPrint>, C<DumpDBFiles>,
C<DumpPackages>, C<quote>, C<HighBit>, C<undefPrint>, C<UsageOnly>, C<TTY>,
C<noTTY>, C<ReadLine>, C<NonStop>, E<lt> [ command ], E<lt>E<lt> command,
E<gt> command, E<gt>E<gt> command, { [ command ], {{ command, ! number, !
-number, ! pattern, !! cmd, H -number, q or ^D, R, |dbcmd, ||dbcmd, =
[alias value], command, m expr, m package

=item Debugger input/output

Prompt, Multiline commands, Stack backtrace, Listing, Frame listing

=item Debugging compile-time statements

=item Debugger Customization

=item Readline Support

=item Editor Support for Debugging

=item The Perl Profiler

=item Debugger support in perl

=item Debugger Internals

=item Other resources

=back

=item BUGS

=head2 perldiag - various Perl diagnostics

=item DESCRIPTION

=head2 perlsec - Perl security

=item DESCRIPTION

=over

=item Laundering and Detecting Tainted Data

=item Switches On the "#!" Line

=item Cleaning Up Your Path

=item Security Bugs

=item Protecting Your Programs

=back

=head2 perltrap - Perl traps for the unwary

=item DESCRIPTION

=over

=item Awk Traps

=item C Traps

=item Sed Traps

=item Shell Traps

=item Perl Traps

=item Perl4 to Perl5 Traps

Discontinuance, Deprecation, and BugFix traps, Parsing Traps, Numerical
Traps, General data type traps, Context Traps - scalar, list contexts,
Precedence Traps, General Regular Expression Traps using s///, etc,
Subroutine, Signal, Sorting Traps, OS Traps, DBM Traps, Unclassified Traps

=item Discontinuance, Deprecation, and BugFix traps

Discontinuance, Deprecation, BugFix, Discontinuance, Discontinuance,
Discontinuance, BugFix, Discontinuance, Discontinuance, BugFix,
Discontinuance, Discontinuance, Deprecation, Discontinuance

=item Parsing Traps

Parsing, Parsing, Parsing

=item Numerical Traps

Numerical, Numerical, Numerical

=item General data type traps

(Arrays), (Arrays), (Hashes), (Globs), (Scalar String), (Constants),
(Scalars), (Variable Suicide)

=item Context Traps - scalar, list contexts

(list context), (scalar context), (scalar context), (list, builtin)

=item Precedence Traps

Precedence, Precedence, Precedence, Precedence, Precedence, Precedence,
Precedence

=item General Regular Expression Traps using s///, etc.

Regular Expression, Regular Expression, Regular Expression, Regular
Expression, Regular Expression, Regular Expression, Regular Expression,
Regular Expression, Regular Expression

=item Subroutine, Signal, Sorting Traps

(Signals), (Sort Subroutine), warn() won't let you specify a filehandle

=item OS Traps

(SysV), (SysV)

=item Interpolation Traps

Interpolation, Interpolation, Interpolation, Interpolation, Interpolation,
Interpolation, Interpolation, Interpolation, Interpolation

=item DBM Traps

DBM, DBM

=item Unclassified Traps

Unclassified

=back

=head2 perlstyle - Perl style guide

=item DESCRIPTION

=head2 perlpod - plain old documentation

=item DESCRIPTION

=item Embedding Pods in Perl Modules

=item Common Pod Pitfalls

=item SEE ALSO

=item AUTHOR

=head2 perlbook - Perl book information

=item DESCRIPTION

=head2 perlembed - how to embed perl in your C program

=item DESCRIPTION

=over

=item PREAMBLE

B<Use C from Perl?>, B<Use a Unix program from Perl?>, B<Use Perl from
Perl?>, B<Use C from C?>, B<Use Perl from C?>

=item ROADMAP

=item Compiling your C program

=item Adding a Perl interpreter to your C program

=item Calling a Perl subroutine from your C program

=item Evaluating a Perl statement from your C program

=item Performing Perl pattern matches and substitutions from your C program

=item Fiddling with the Perl stack from your C program

=item Maintaining a persistent interpreter

=item Maintaining multiple interpreter instances

=item Using Perl modules, which themselves use C libraries, from your C
program

=back

=item Embedding Perl under Win32

=item MORAL

=item AUTHOR

=item COPYRIGHT

=head2 perlapio - perl's IO abstraction interface.

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

B<PerlIO *>, B<PerlIO_stdin()>, B<PerlIO_stdout()>, B<PerlIO_stderr()>,
B<PerlIO_open(path, mode)>, B<PerlIO_fdopen(fd,mode)>,
B<PerlIO_printf(f,fmt,...)>, B<PerlIO_vprintf(f,fmt,a)>,
B<PerlIO_stdoutf(fmt,...)>, B<PerlIO_read(f,buf,count)>,
B<PerlIO_write(f,buf,count)>, B<PerlIO_close(f)>, B<PerlIO_puts(s,f)>,
B<PerlIO_putc(c,f)>, B<PerlIO_ungetc(c,f)>, B<PerlIO_getc(f)>,
B<PerlIO_eof(f)>, B<PerlIO_error(f)>, B<PerlIO_fileno(f)>,
B<PerlIO_clearerr(f)>, B<PerlIO_flush(f)>, B<PerlIO_tell(f)>,
B<PerlIO_seek(f,o,w)>, B<PerlIO_getpos(f,p)>, B<PerlIO_setpos(f,p)>,
B<PerlIO_rewind(f)>, B<PerlIO_tmpfile()>

=over

=item Co-existence with stdio

B<PerlIO_importFILE(f,flags)>, B<PerlIO_exportFILE(f,flags)>,
B<PerlIO_findFILE(f)>, B<PerlIO_releaseFILE(p,f)>, B<PerlIO_setlinebuf(f)>,
B<PerlIO_has_cntptr(f)>, B<PerlIO_get_ptr(f)>, B<PerlIO_get_cnt(f)>,
B<PerlIO_canset_cnt(f)>, B<PerlIO_fast_gets(f)>,
B<PerlIO_set_ptrcnt(f,p,c)>, B<PerlIO_set_cnt(f,c)>, B<PerlIO_has_base(f)>,
B<PerlIO_get_base(f)>, B<PerlIO_get_bufsiz(f)>

=back

=head2 perlxs - XS language reference manual

=item DESCRIPTION

=over

=item Introduction

=item On The Road

=item The Anatomy of an XSUB

=item The Argument Stack

=item The RETVAL Variable

=item The MODULE Keyword

=item The PACKAGE Keyword

=item The PREFIX Keyword

=item The OUTPUT: Keyword

=item The CODE: Keyword

=item The INIT: Keyword

=item The NO_INIT Keyword

=item Initializing Function Parameters

=item Default Parameter Values

=item The PREINIT: Keyword

=item The SCOPE: Keyword

=item The INPUT: Keyword

=item Variable-length Parameter Lists

=item The PPCODE: Keyword

=item Returning Undef And Empty Lists

=item The REQUIRE: Keyword

=item The CLEANUP: Keyword

=item The BOOT: Keyword

=item The VERSIONCHECK: Keyword

=item The PROTOTYPES: Keyword

=item The PROTOTYPE: Keyword

=item The ALIAS: Keyword

=item The INCLUDE: Keyword

=item The CASE: Keyword

=item The & Unary Operator

=item Inserting Comments and C Preprocessor Directives

=item Using XS With C++

=item Interface Strategy

=item Perl Objects And C Structures

=item The Typemap

=back

=item EXAMPLES

=item XS VERSION

=item AUTHOR

=head2 perlxstut, perlXStut - Tutorial for XSUBs

=item DESCRIPTION

=over

=item VERSION CAVEAT

=item DYNAMIC VERSUS STATIC

=item EXAMPLE 1

=item EXAMPLE 2

=item WHAT HAS GONE ON?

=item WRITING GOOD TEST SCRIPTS

=item EXAMPLE 3

=item WHAT'S NEW HERE?

=item INPUT AND OUTPUT PARAMETERS

=item THE XSUBPP COMPILER

=item THE TYPEMAP FILE

=item WARNING

=item EXAMPLE 4

=item WHAT HAS HAPPENED HERE?

=item SPECIFYING ARGUMENTS TO XSUBPP

=item THE ARGUMENT STACK

=item EXTENDING YOUR EXTENSION

=item DOCUMENTING YOUR EXTENSION

=item INSTALLING YOUR EXTENSION

=item SEE ALSO

=item Author

=item Last Changed

=back

=head2 perlguts - Perl's Internal Functions

=item DESCRIPTION

=item Variables

=over

=item Datatypes

=item What is an "IV"?

=item Working with SVs

=item What's Really Stored in an SV?

=item Working with AVs

=item Working with HVs

=item Hash API Extensions

=item References

=item Blessed References and Class Objects

=item Creating New Variables

=item Reference Counts and Mortality

=item Stashes and Globs

=item Double-Typed SVs

=item Magic Variables

=item Assigning Magic

=item Magic Virtual Tables

=item Finding Magic

=item Understanding the Magic of Tied Hashes and Arrays

=back

=item Subroutines

=over

=item XSUBs and the Argument Stack

=item Calling Perl Routines from within C Programs

=item Memory Allocation

=item PerlIO

=item Putting a C value on Perl stack

=item Scratchpads

=item Scratchpads and recursion

=back

=item Compiled code

=over

=item Code tree

=item Examining the tree

=item Compile pass 1: check routines

=item Compile pass 1a: constant folding

=item Compile pass 2: context propagation

=item Compile pass 3: peephole optimization

=back

=item API LISTING

AvFILL, av_clear, av_extend, av_fetch, av_len, av_make, av_pop, av_push,
av_shift, av_store, av_undef, av_unshift, CLASS, Copy, croak, CvSTASH,
DBsingle, DBsub, DBtrace, dMARK, dORIGMARK, dowarn, dSP, dXSARGS, dXSI32,
dXSI32, ENTER, EXTEND, FREETMPS, G_ARRAY, G_DISCARD, G_EVAL, GIMME,
GIMME_V, G_NOARGS, G_SCALAR, G_VOID, gv_fetchmeth, gv_fetchmethod,
gv_fetchmethod_autoload, gv_stashpv, gv_stashsv, GvSV, HEf_SVKEY, HeHASH,
HeKEY, HeKLEN, HePV, HeSVKEY, HeSVKEY_force, HeSVKEY_set, HeVAL, hv_clear,
hv_delayfree_ent, hv_delete, hv_delete_ent, hv_exists, hv_exists_ent,
hv_fetch, hv_fetch_ent, hv_free_ent, hv_iterinit, hv_iterkey, hv_iterkeysv,
hv_iternext, hv_iternextsv, hv_iterval, hv_magic, HvNAME, hv_store,
hv_store_ent, hv_undef, isALNUM, isALPHA, isDIGIT, isLOWER, isSPACE,
isUPPER, items, ix, LEAVE, MARK, mg_clear, mg_copy, mg_find, mg_free,
mg_get, mg_len, mg_magical, mg_set, Move, na, New, Newc, Newz, newAV,
newHV, newRV_inc, newRV_noinc, newSV, newSViv, newSVnv, newSVpv, newSVrv,
newSVsv, newXS, newXSproto, Nullav, Nullch, Nullcv, Nullhv, Nullsv,
ORIGMARK, perl_alloc, perl_call_argv, perl_call_method, perl_call_pv,
perl_call_sv, perl_construct, perl_destruct, perl_eval_sv, perl_eval_pv,
perl_free, perl_get_av, perl_get_cv, perl_get_hv, perl_get_sv, perl_parse,
perl_require_pv, perl_run, POPi, POPl, POPp, POPn, POPs, PUSHMARK, PUSHi,
PUSHn, PUSHp, PUSHs, PUTBACK, Renew, Renewc, RETVAL, safefree, safemalloc,
saferealloc, savepv, savepvn, SAVETMPS, SP, SPAGAIN, ST, strEQ, strGE,
strGT, strLE, strLT, strNE, strnEQ, strnNE, sv_2mortal, sv_bless, sv_catpv,
sv_catpvn, sv_catpvf, sv_catsv, sv_cmp, sv_cmp, SvCUR, SvCUR_set, sv_dec,
sv_dec, SvEND, sv_eq, SvGROW, sv_grow, sv_inc, SvIOK, SvIOK_off, SvIOK_on,
SvIOK_only, SvIOK_only, SvIOKp, sv_isa, SvIV, sv_isobject, SvIVX, SvLEN,
sv_len, sv_len, sv_magic, sv_mortalcopy, SvOK, sv_newmortal, sv_no, SvNIOK,
SvNIOK_off, SvNIOKp, SvNOK, SvNOK_off, SvNOK_on, SvNOK_only, SvNOK_only,
SvNOKp, SvNV, SvNVX, SvPOK, SvPOK_off, SvPOK_on, SvPOK_only, SvPOK_only,
SvPOKp, SvPV, SvPVX, SvREFCNT, SvREFCNT_dec, SvREFCNT_inc, SvROK,
SvROK_off, SvROK_on, SvRV, sv_setiv, sv_setnv, sv_setpv, sv_setpvn,
sv_setpvf, sv_setref_iv, sv_setref_nv, sv_setref_pv, sv_setref_pvn,
sv_setsv, SvSTASH, SVt_IV, SVt_PV, SVt_PVAV, SVt_PVCV, SVt_PVHV, SVt_PVMG,
SVt_NV, SvTRUE, SvTYPE, svtype, SvUPGRADE, sv_upgrade, sv_undef, sv_unref,
sv_usepvn, sv_yes, THIS, toLOWER, toUPPER, warn, XPUSHi, XPUSHn, XPUSHp,
XPUSHs, XS, XSRETURN, XSRETURN_EMPTY, XSRETURN_IV, XSRETURN_NO,
XSRETURN_NV, XSRETURN_PV, XSRETURN_UNDEF, XSRETURN_YES, XST_mIV, XST_mNV,
XST_mNO, XST_mPV, XST_mUNDEF, XST_mYES, XS_VERSION, XS_VERSION_BOOTCHECK,
Zero

=item EDITOR

=item DATE

=head2 perlcall - Perl calling conventions from C

=item DESCRIPTION

An Error Handler, An Event Driven Program

=item THE PERL_CALL FUNCTIONS

B<perl_call_sv>, B<perl_call_pv>, B<perl_call_method>, B<perl_call_argv>

=item FLAG VALUES

=over

=item  G_VOID

=item  G_SCALAR

=item G_ARRAY

=item G_DISCARD

=item G_NOARGS

=item G_EVAL

=item G_KEEPERR

=item Determining the Context

=back

=item KNOWN PROBLEMS

=item EXAMPLES

=over

=item No Parameters, Nothing returned

=item Passing Parameters

=item Returning a Scalar

=item Returning a list of values

=item Returning a list in a scalar context

=item Returning Data from Perl via the parameter list

=item Using G_EVAL

=item Using G_KEEPERR

=item Using perl_call_sv

=item Using perl_call_argv

=item Using perl_call_method

=item Using GIMME_V

=item Using Perl to dispose of temporaries

=item Strategies for storing Callback Context Information

1. Ignore the problem - Allow only 1 callback, 2. Create a sequence of
callbacks - hard wired limit, 3. Use a parameter to map to the Perl
callback

=item Alternate Stack Manipulation

=item Creating and calling an anonymous subroutine in C

=back

=item SEE ALSO

=item AUTHOR

=item DATE

=head1 PRAGMA DOCUMENTATION

=head2 autouse - postpone load of modules until a function is used

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=item WARNING

=item BUGS

=item AUTHOR

=item SEE ALSO

=head2 blib - Use MakeMaker's uninstalled version of a package

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=item BUGS

=item AUTHOR

=head2 constant - Perl pragma to declare constants

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=item NOTES

=item TECHNICAL NOTE

=item BUGS

=item AUTHOR

=item COPYRIGHT

=head2 diagnostics - Perl compiler pragma to force verbose warning
diagnostics

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=over

=item The C<diagnostics> Pragma

=item The I<splain> Program

=back

=item EXAMPLES

=item INTERNALS

=item BUGS

=item AUTHOR

=head2 integer - Perl pragma to compute arithmetic in integer instead of
double

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=head2 less - perl pragma to request less of something from the compiler

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=head2 lib - manipulate @INC at compile time

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=over

=item ADDING DIRECTORIES TO @INC

=item DELETING DIRECTORIES FROM @INC

=item RESTORING ORIGINAL @INC

=back

=item SEE ALSO

=item AUTHOR

=head2 locale - Perl pragma to use and avoid POSIX locales for built-in
operations

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=head2 ops - Perl pragma to restrict unsafe operations when compiling

=item SYNOPSIS	

=item DESCRIPTION

=item SEE ALSO

=head2 overload - Package for overloading perl operations

=item SYNOPSIS

=item CAVEAT SCRIPTOR

=item DESCRIPTION

=over

=item Declaration of overloaded functions

=item Calling Conventions for Binary Operations

FALSE, TRUE, C<undef>

=item Calling Conventions for Unary Operations

=item Overloadable Operations

I<Arithmetic operations>, I<Comparison operations>, I<Bit operations>,
I<Increment and decrement>, I<Transcendental functions>, I<Boolean, string
and numeric conversion>, I<Special>

=item Inheritance and overloading

Strings as values of C<use overload> directive, Overloading of an operation
is inherited by derived classes

=back

=item SPECIAL SYMBOLS FOR C<use overload>

=over

=item Last Resort

=item Fallback 

C<undef>, TRUE, defined, but FALSE

=item Copy Constructor

B<Example>

=back

=item MAGIC AUTOGENERATION

I<Assignment forms of arithmetic operations>, I<Conversion operations>,
I<Increment and decrement>, C<abs($a)>, I<Unary minus>, I<Negation>,
I<Concatenation>, I<Comparison operations>, I<Copy operator>

=item WARNING

=item Run-time Overloading

=item Public functions

overload::StrVal(arg), overload::Overloaded(arg), overload::Method(obj,op)

=item IMPLEMENTATION

=item AUTHOR

=item DIAGNOSTICS

=item BUGS

=head2 sigtrap - Perl pragma to enable simple signal handling

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=item OPTIONS

=over

=item SIGNAL HANDLERS

B<stack-trace>, B<die>, B<handler> I<your-handler>

=item SIGNAL LISTS

B<normal-signals>, B<error-signals>, B<old-interface-signals>

=item OTHER

B<untrapped>, B<any>, I<signal>, I<number>

=back

=item EXAMPLES

=head2 strict - Perl pragma to restrict unsafe constructs

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

C<strict refs>, C<strict vars>, C<strict subs>

=head2 subs - Perl pragma to predeclare sub names

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=head2 vars - Perl pragma to predeclare global variable names

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=head1 MODULE DOCUMENTATION

=head2 AnyDBM_File - provide framework for multiple DBMs

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=over

=item DBM Comparisons

[0], [1], [2], [3]

=back

=item SEE ALSO

=head2 AutoLoader - load subroutines only on demand

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=over

=item Subroutine Stubs

=item Using B<AutoLoader>'s AUTOLOAD Subroutine

=item Overriding B<AutoLoader>'s AUTOLOAD Subroutine

=item Package Lexicals

=item B<AutoLoader> vs. B<SelfLoader>

=back

=item CAVEATS

=item SEE ALSO

=head2 AutoSplit - split a package for autoloading

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=item CAVEATS

=item DIAGNOSTICS

=head2 Benchmark - benchmark running times of code

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=over

=item Methods

new, debug

=item Standard Exports

timeit(COUNT, CODE), timethis ( COUNT, CODE, [ TITLE, [ STYLE ]] ),
timethese ( COUNT, CODEHASHREF, [ STYLE ] ), timediff ( T1, T2 ), timestr (
TIMEDIFF, [ STYLE, [ FORMAT ]] )

=item Optional Exports

clearcache ( COUNT ), clearallcache ( ), disablecache ( ), enablecache ( )

=back

=item NOTES

=item INHERITANCE

=item CAVEATS

=item AUTHORS

=item MODIFICATION HISTORY

=head2 Bundle::CPAN - A bundle to play with all the other modules on CPAN

=item SYNOPSIS

=item CONTENTS

=item DESCRIPTION

=item AUTHOR

=head2 CGI - Simple Common Gateway Interface Class

=item SYNOPSIS

=item ABSTRACT

=item INSTALLATION

=item DESCRIPTION

=over

=item CREATING A NEW QUERY OBJECT:

=item CREATING A NEW QUERY OBJECT FROM AN INPUT FILE

=item FETCHING A LIST OF KEYWORDS FROM THE QUERY:

=item FETCHING THE NAMES OF ALL THE PARAMETERS PASSED TO YOUR SCRIPT:

=item FETCHING THE VALUE OR VALUES OF A SINGLE NAMED PARAMETER:

=item SETTING THE VALUE(S) OF A NAMED PARAMETER:

=item APPENDING ADDITIONAL VALUES TO A NAMED PARAMETER:

=item IMPORTING ALL PARAMETERS INTO A NAMESPACE:

=item DELETING A PARAMETER COMPLETELY:

=item DELETING ALL PARAMETERS:

=item SAVING THE STATE OF THE FORM TO A FILE:

=item CREATING A SELF-REFERENCING URL THAT PRESERVES STATE INFORMATION:

=item COMPATIBILITY WITH CGI-LIB.PL

=item CALLING CGI FUNCTIONS THAT TAKE MULTIPLE ARGUMENTS

=item CREATING THE HTTP HEADER:

=item GENERATING A REDIRECTION INSTRUCTION

=item CREATING THE HTML HEADER:

B<Parameters:>, 4, 5, 6..

=item ENDING THE HTML DOCUMENT:

=back

=item CREATING FORMS

=over

=item CREATING AN ISINDEX TAG

=item STARTING AND ENDING A FORM

B<application/x-www-form-urlencoded>, B<multipart/form-data>

=item CREATING A TEXT FIELD

B<Parameters>

=item CREATING A BIG TEXT FIELD

=item CREATING A PASSWORD FIELD

=item CREATING A FILE UPLOAD FIELD

B<Parameters>

=item CREATING A POPUP MENU

=item CREATING A SCROLLING LIST

B<Parameters:>

=item CREATING A GROUP OF RELATED CHECKBOXES

B<Parameters:>

=item CREATING A STANDALONE CHECKBOX

B<Parameters:>

=item CREATING A RADIO BUTTON GROUP

B<Parameters:>

=item CREATING A SUBMIT BUTTON 

B<Parameters:>

=item CREATING A RESET BUTTON

=item CREATING A DEFAULT BUTTON

=item CREATING A HIDDEN FIELD

B<Parameters:>

=item CREATING A CLICKABLE IMAGE BUTTON

B<Parameters:>, 3.The third option (-align, optional) is an alignment type,
and may be
TOP, BOTTOM or MIDDLE

=item CREATING A JAVASCRIPT ACTION BUTTON

=back

=item NETSCAPE COOKIES

1. an expiration time, 2. a domain, 3. a path, 4. a "secure" flag,
B<-name>, B<-value>, B<-path>, B<-domain>, B<-expires>, B<-secure>

=item WORKING WITH NETSCAPE FRAMES

1. Create a <Frameset> document, 2. Specify the destination for the
document in the HTTP header, 3. Specify the destination for the document in
the <FORM> tag

=item LIMITED SUPPORT FOR CASCADING STYLE SHEETS

=item DEBUGGING

=over

=item DUMPING OUT ALL THE NAME/VALUE PAIRS

=back

=item FETCHING ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES

B<accept()>, B<raw_cookie()>, B<user_agent()>, B<path_info()>,
B<path_translated()>, B<remote_host()>, B<script_name()>Return the script
name as a partial URL, for self-refering
scripts, B<referer()>, B<auth_type ()>, B<server_name ()>, B<virtual_host
()>, B<server_software ()>, B<remote_user ()>, B<user_name ()>,
B<request_method()>

=item CREATING HTML ELEMENTS

=over

=item PROVIDING ARGUMENTS TO HTML SHORTCUTS

=item Generating new HTML tags

=back

=item IMPORTING CGI METHOD CALLS INTO YOUR NAME SPACE

B<cgi>, B<form>, B<html2>, B<html3>, B<netscape>, B<shortcuts>,
B<standard>, B<all>

=item USING NPH SCRIPTS

In the B<use> statementSimply add ":nph" to the list of symbols to be
imported into your script:, By calling the B<nph()> method:, By using
B<-nph> parameters in the B<header()> and B<redirect()>  statements:

=item AUTHOR INFORMATION

=item CREDITS

Matt Heffron (heffron@falstaff.css.beckman.com), James Taylor
(james.taylor@srs.gov), Scott Anguish <sanguish@digifix.com>, Mike Jewell
(mlj3u@virginia.edu), Timothy Shimmin (tes@kbs.citri.edu.au), Joergen Haegg
(jh@axis.se), Laurent Delfosse (delfosse@csgrad1.cs.wvu.edu), Richard
Resnick (applepi1@aol.com), Craig Bishop (csb@barwonwater.vic.gov.au), Tony
Curtis (tc@vcpc.univie.ac.at), Tim Bunce (Tim.Bunce@ig.co.uk), Tom
Christiansen (tchrist@convex.com), Andreas Koenig
(k@franz.ww.TU-Berlin.DE), Tim MacKenzie (Tim.MacKenzie@fulcrum.com.au),
Kevin B. Hendricks (kbhend@dogwood.tyler.wm.edu), Stephen Dahmen
(joyfire@inxpress.net), Ed Jordan (ed@fidalgo.net), David Alan Pisoni
(david@cnation.com), ...and many many more..

=item A COMPLETE EXAMPLE OF A SIMPLE FORM-BASED SCRIPT

=item BUGS

=item SEE ALSO

=head2 CGI::Apache - Make things work with CGI.pm against Perl-Apache API

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=item NOTE 1

=item NOTE 2

=item SEE ALSO

=item AUTHOR

=head2 CGI::Carp, B<CGI::Carp> - CGI routines for writing to the HTTPD (or
other) error log

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=item REDIRECTING ERROR MESSAGES

=item MAKING PERL ERRORS APPEAR IN THE BROWSER WINDOW

=item CHANGE LOG

=item AUTHORS

=item SEE ALSO

=head2 CGI::Fast - CGI Interface for Fast CGI

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=item OTHER PIECES OF THE PUZZLE

=item WRITING FASTCGI PERL SCRIPTS

=item INSTALLING FASTCGI SCRIPTS

=item USING FASTCGI SCRIPTS AS CGI SCRIPTS

=item CAVEATS

=item AUTHOR INFORMATION

=item BUGS

=item SEE ALSO

=head2 CGI::Push - Simple Interface to Server Push

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=item USING CGI::Push

-last_page, -type, -delay, -cookie, -target, -expires

=item INSTALLING CGI::Push SCRIPTS

=item CAVEATS

=item AUTHOR INFORMATION

=item BUGS

=item SEE ALSO

=head2 CGI::Switch - Try more than one constructors and return the first
object available

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=item SEE ALSO

=item AUTHOR

=head2 CPAN - query, download and build perl modules from CPAN sites

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=over

=item Interactive Mode

Searching for authors, bundles, distribution files and modules, make, test,
install, clean	modules or distributions, readme, look module or
distribution

=item CPAN::Shell

=item autobundle

=item recompile

=item The 4 Classes: Authors, Bundles, Modules, Distributions

=item ProgrammerE<39>s interface

expand($type,@things), Programming Examples

=item Cache Manager

=item Bundles

=item Prerequisites

=item Debugging

=item Floppy, Zip, and all that Jazz

=back

=item CONFIGURATION

o conf E<lt>scalar optionE<gt>, o conf E<lt>scalar optionE<gt>
E<lt>valueE<gt>, o conf E<lt>list optionE<gt>, o conf E<lt>list optionE<gt>
[shift|pop], o conf E<lt>list optionE<gt> [unshift|push|splice]
E<lt>listE<gt>

=item SECURITY

=item EXPORT

=item BUGS

=item AUTHOR

=item SEE ALSO

=head2 CPAN::FirstTime - Utility for CPAN::Config file Initialization

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=head2 CPANox, CPAN::Nox - Wrapper around CPAN.pm without using any XS
module

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=item  SEE ALSO

=head2 Carp, carp - warn of errors (from perspective of caller)

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=head2 Class::Struct - declare struct-like datatypes as Perl classes

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=over

=item The C<struct()> function

=item Element Types and Accessor Methods

Scalar (C<'$'> or C<'*$'>), Array (C<'@'> or C<'*@'>), Hash (C<'%'> or
C<'*%'>), Class (C<'Class_Name'> or C<'*Class_Name'>)

=back

=item EXAMPLES

Example 1, Example 2

=item Author and Modification History

=head2 Config - access Perl configuration information

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

myconfig(), config_sh(), config_vars(@names)

=item EXAMPLE

=item WARNING

=item NOTE

=head2 Cwd, getcwd - get pathname of current working directory

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=head2 DB_File - Perl5 access to Berkeley DB

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

B<DB_HASH>, B<DB_BTREE>, B<DB_RECNO>

=over

=item Interface to Berkeley DB

=item Opening a Berkeley DB Database File

=item Default Parameters

=item In Memory Databases

=back

=item DB_HASH

=over

=item A Simple Example

=back

=item DB_BTREE

=over

=item Changing the BTREE sort order

=item Handling Duplicate Keys 

=item The get_dup() Method

=item Matching Partial Keys 

=back

=item DB_RECNO

=over

=item The 'bval' Option

=item A Simple Example

=item Extra Methods

B<$X-E<gt>push(list) ;>, B<$value = $X-E<gt>pop ;>, B<$X-E<gt>shift>,
B<$X-E<gt>unshift(list) ;>, B<$X-E<gt>length>

=item Another Example

=back

=item THE API INTERFACE

B<$status = $X-E<gt>get($key, $value [, $flags]) ;>, B<$status =
$X-E<gt>put($key, $value [, $flags]) ;>, B<$status = $X-E<gt>del($key [,
$flags]) ;>, B<$status = $X-E<gt>fd ;>, B<$status = $X-E<gt>seq($key,
$value, $flags) ;>, B<$status = $X-E<gt>sync([$flags]) ;>

=item HINTS AND TIPS 

=over

=item Locking Databases

=item Sharing Databases With C Applications

=item The untie() Gotcha

=back

=item COMMON QUESTIONS

=over

=item Why is there Perl source in my database?

=item How do I store complex data structures with DB_File?

=item What does "Invalid Argument" mean?

=item What does "Bareword 'DB_File' not allowed" mean? 

=back

=item HISTORY

=item BUGS

=item AVAILABILITY

=item SEE ALSO

=item AUTHOR

=head2 Devel::SelfStubber - generate stubs for a SelfLoading module

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=head2 DirHandle - supply object methods for directory handles

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=head2 DynaLoader - Dynamically load C libraries into Perl code

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

@dl_library_path, @dl_resolve_using, @dl_require_symbols, @dl_librefs,
@dl_modules, dl_error(), $dl_debug, dl_findfile(), dl_expandspec(),
dl_load_file(), dl_loadflags(), dl_find_symbol(),
dl_find_symbol_anywhere(), dl_undef_symbols(), dl_install_xsub(),
bootstrap()

=item AUTHOR

=head2 English - use nice English (or awk) names for ugly punctuation
variables

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=head2 Env - perl module that imports environment variables

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=item AUTHOR

=head2 Exporter - Implements default import method for modules

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=over

=item Selecting What To Export

=item Specialised Import Lists

=item Module Version Checking

=item Managing Unknown Symbols

=item Tag Handling Utility Functions

=back

=head2 ExtUtils::Command - utilities to replace common UNIX commands in
Makefiles etc.

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

cat, eqtime src dst, rm_f files..., rm_f files..., touch files .., mv
source... destination, cp source... destination, chmod mode files.., mkpath
directory.., test_f file

=item BUGS

=item SEE ALSO 

=item AUTHOR

=head2 ExtUtils::Embed - Utilities for embedding Perl in C/C++ applications

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=item @EXPORT

=item FUNCTIONS

xsinit(), Examples, ldopts(), Examples, perl_inc(), ccflags(), ccdlflags(),
ccopts(), xsi_header(), xsi_protos(@modules), xsi_body(@modules)

=item EXAMPLES

=item SEE ALSO

=item AUTHOR

=head2 ExtUtils::Install - install files from here to there

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=head2 ExtUtils::Liblist - determine libraries to use and how to use them

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

For static extensions, For dynamic extensions, For dynamic extensions

=over

=item EXTRALIBS

=item LDLOADLIBS and LD_RUN_PATH

=item BSLOADLIBS

=back

=item PORTABILITY

=over

=item VMS implementation

=item Win32 implementation

=back

=item SEE ALSO

=head2 ExtUtils::MM_OS2 - methods to override UN*X behaviour in
ExtUtils::MakeMaker

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=head2 ExtUtils::MM_Unix - methods used by ExtUtils::MakeMaker

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=item METHODS

=over

=item Preloaded methods

canonpath, catdir, catfile, curdir, rootdir, updir

=item SelfLoaded methods

c_o (o), cflags (o), clean (o), const_cccmd (o), const_config (o),
const_loadlibs (o), constants (o), depend (o), dir_target (o), dist (o),
dist_basics (o), dist_ci (o), dist_core (o), dist_dir (o), dist_test (o),
dlsyms (o), dynamic (o), dynamic_bs (o), dynamic_lib (o), exescan,
extliblist, file_name_is_absolute, find_perl

=item Methods to actually produce chunks of text for the Makefile

force (o), guess_name, has_link_code, init_dirscan, init_main, init_others,
install (o), installbin (o), libscan (o), linkext (o), lsdir, macro (o),
makeaperl (o), makefile (o), manifypods (o), maybe_command,
maybe_command_in_dirs, needs_linking (o), nicetext, parse_version, pasthru
(o), path, perl_script, perldepend (o), pm_to_blib, post_constants (o),
post_initialize (o), postamble (o), prefixify, processPL (o), realclean
(o), replace_manpage_separator, static (o), static_lib (o), staticmake (o),
subdir_x (o), subdirs (o), test (o), test_via_harness (o), test_via_script
(o), tool_autosplit (o), tools_other (o), tool_xsubpp (o), top_targets (o),
writedoc, xs_c (o), xs_o (o), perl_archive, export_list

=back

=item SEE ALSO

=head2 ExtUtils::MM_VMS - methods to override UN*X behaviour in
ExtUtils::MakeMaker

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=over

=item Methods always loaded

eliminate_macros, fixpath, catdir, catfile, wraplist, curdir (override),
rootdir (override), updir (override)

=item SelfLoaded methods

guess_name (override), find_perl (override), path (override), maybe_command
(override), maybe_command_in_dirs (override), perl_script (override),
file_name_is_absolute (override), replace_manpage_separator, init_others
(override), constants (override), cflags (override), const_cccmd
(override), pm_to_blib (override), tool_autosplit (override), tool_sxubpp
(override), xsubpp_version (override), tools_other (override), dist
(override), c_o (override), xs_c (override), xs_o (override), top_targets
(override), dlsyms (override), dynamic_lib (override), dynamic_bs
(override), static_lib (override), manifypods (override), processPL
(override), installbin (override), subdir_x (override), clean (override),
realclean (override), dist_basics (override), dist_core (override),
dist_dir (override), dist_test (override), install (override), perldepend
(override), makefile (override), test (override), test_via_harness
(override), test_via_script (override), makeaperl (override), nicetext
(override)

=back

=head2 ExtUtils::MM_Win32 - methods to override UN*X behaviour in
ExtUtils::MakeMaker

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

catfile, constants (o), static_lib (o), dynamic_bs (o), dynamic_lib (o),
canonpath, perl_script, pm_to_blib, test_via_harness (o), tool_autosplit
(override), tools_other (o), xs_o (o), top_targets (o), manifypods (o),
dist_ci (o), dist_core (o), pasthru (o)

=head2 ExtUtils::MakeMaker - create an extension Makefile

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=over

=item How To Write A Makefile.PL

=item Default Makefile Behaviour

=item make test

=item make testdb

=item make install

=item PREFIX and LIB attribute

=item AFS users

=item Static Linking of a new Perl Binary

=item Determination of Perl Library and Installation Locations

=item Which architecture dependent directory?

=item Using Attributes and Parameters

C, CONFIG, CONFIGURE, DEFINE, DIR, DISTNAME, DL_FUNCS, DL_VARS,
EXCLUDE_EXT, EXE_FILES, NO_VC, FIRST_MAKEFILE, FULLPERL, H, INC,
INCLUDE_EXT, INSTALLARCHLIB, INSTALLBIN, INSTALLDIRS, INSTALLMAN1DIR,
INSTALLMAN3DIR, INSTALLPRIVLIB, INSTALLSCRIPT, INSTALLSITELIB,
INSTALLSITEARCH, INST_ARCHLIB, INST_BIN, INST_EXE, INST_LIB, INST_MAN1DIR,
INST_MAN3DIR, INST_SCRIPT, LDFROM, LIBPERL_A, LIB, LIBS, LINKTYPE,
MAKEAPERL, MAKEFILE, MAN1PODS, MAN3PODS, MAP_TARGET, MYEXTLIB, NAME,
NEEDS_LINKING, NOECHO, NORECURS, OBJECT, OPTIMIZE, PERL, PERLMAINCC,
PERL_ARCHLIB, PERL_LIB, PERL_SRC, PL_FILES, PM, PMLIBDIRS, PREFIX,
PREREQ_PM, SKIP, TYPEMAPS, VERSION, VERSION_FROM, XS, XSOPT, XSPROTOARG,
XS_VERSION

=item Additional lowercase attributes

clean, depend, dist, dynamic_lib, installpm, linkext, macro, realclean,
tool_autosplit

=item Overriding MakeMaker Methods

=item Hintsfile support

=item Distribution Support

   make distcheck,    make skipcheck,	 make distclean,    make manifest, 
  make distdir,    make tardist,    make dist,	  make uutardist,    make
shdist,    make zipdist,    make ci

=back

=item SEE ALSO

=item AUTHORS

=head2 ExtUtils::Manifest - utilities to write and check a MANIFEST file

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=item MANIFEST.SKIP

=item EXPORT_OK

=item GLOBAL VARIABLES

=item DIAGNOSTICS

C<Not in MANIFEST:> I<file>, C<No such file:> I<file>, C<MANIFEST:> I<$!>,
C<Added to MANIFEST:> I<file>

=item SEE ALSO

=item AUTHOR

=head2 ExtUtils::Miniperl, writemain - write the C code for perlmain.c

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=item SEE ALSO

=head2 ExtUtils::Mkbootstrap - make a bootstrap file for use by DynaLoader

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=head2 ExtUtils::Mksymlists - write linker options files for dynamic
extension

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

NAME, DL_FUNCS, DL_VARS, FILE, FUNCLIST, DLBASE

=item AUTHOR

=item REVISION

=head2 ExtUtils::testlib - add blib/* directories to @INC

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=head2 Fcntl - load the C Fcntl.h defines

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=item NOTE

=item EXPORTED SYMBOLS

=head2 File::Basename, fileparse - split a pathname into pieces

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

fileparse_set_fstype, fileparse

=item EXAMPLES

C<basename>, C<dirname>

=head2 File::CheckTree, validate - run many filetest checks on a tree

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=head2 File::Compare - Compare files or filehandles

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=item RETURN

=item AUTHOR

=head2 File::Copy - Copy files or filehandles

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=over

=item Special behavior if C<syscopy> is defined (VMS and OS/2)

rmscopy($from,$to[,$date_flag])

=back

=item RETURN

=item AUTHOR

=head2 File::DosGlob - DOS like globbing and then some

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=item EXPORTS (by request only)

=item BUGS

=item AUTHOR

=item HISTORY

=item SEE ALSO

=head2 File::Find, find - traverse a file tree

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=head2 File::Path - create or remove a series of directories

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=item AUTHORS

=item REVISION

=head2 File::stat - by-name interface to Perl's built-in stat() functions

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=item NOTE

=item AUTHOR

=head2 FileCache - keep more files open than the system permits

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=item BUGS

=head2 FileHandle - supply object methods for filehandles

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

$fh->print, $fh->printf, $fh->getline, $fh->getlines

=item SEE ALSO

=head2 FindBin - Locate directory of original perl script

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=item EXPORTABLE VARIABLES

=item KNOWN BUGS

=item AUTHORS

=item COPYRIGHT

=item REVISION

=head2 GDBM_File - Perl5 access to the gdbm library.

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=item AVAILABILITY

=item BUGS

=item SEE ALSO

=head2 Getopt::Long, GetOptions - extended processing of command line
options

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

E<lt>noneE<gt>, !, =s, :s, =i, :i, =f, :f

=over

=item Linkage specification

=item Aliases and abbreviations

=item Non-option call-back routine

=item Option starters

=item Return value

=back

=item COMPATIBILITY

=item EXAMPLES

=item CONFIGURATION OPTIONS

default, auto_abbrev, getopt_compat, require_order, permute, bundling
(default: reset), bundling_override (default: reset), ignore_case 
(default: set), ignore_case_always (default: reset), pass_through (default:
reset), debug (default: reset)

=item OTHER USEFUL VARIABLES

$Getopt::Long::VERSION, $Getopt::Long::error

=head2 Getopt::Std, getopt - Process single-character switches with switch
clustering

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=head2 I18N::Collate - compare 8-bit scalar data according to the current
locale

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=head2 IO - load various IO modules

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=head2 IO::File - supply object methods for filehandles

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=item CONSTRUCTOR

new ([ ARGS ] ), new_tmpfile

=item METHODS

open( FILENAME [,MODE [,PERMS]] )

=item SEE ALSO

=item HISTORY

=head2 IO::Handle - supply object methods for I/O handles

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=item CONSTRUCTOR

new (), new_from_fd ( FD, MODE )

=item METHODS

$fh->fdopen ( FD, MODE ), $fh->opened, $fh->getline, $fh->getlines,
$fh->ungetc ( ORD ), $fh->write ( BUF, LEN [, OFFSET }\] ), $fh->flush,
$fh->error, $fh->clearerr, $fh->untaint

=item NOTE

=item SEE ALSO

=item BUGS

=item HISTORY

=head2 IO::Pipe, IO::pipe - supply object methods for pipes

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=item CONSTRCUTOR

new ( [READER, WRITER] )

=item METHODS

reader ([ARGS]), writer ([ARGS]), handles ()

=item SEE ALSO

=item AUTHOR

=item COPYRIGHT

=head2 IO::Seekable - supply seek based methods for I/O objects

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=item SEE ALSO

=item HISTORY

=head2 IO::Select - OO interface to the select system call

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=item CONSTRUCTOR

new ( [ HANDLES ] )

=item METHODS

add ( HANDLES ), remove ( HANDLES ), exists ( HANDLE ), handles, can_read (
[ TIMEOUT ] ), can_write ( [ TIMEOUT ] ), has_error ( [ TIMEOUT ] ), count
(), bits(), bits(), select ( READ, WRITE, ERROR [, TIMEOUT ] )

=item EXAMPLE

=item AUTHOR

=item COPYRIGHT

=head2 IO::Socket - Object interface to socket communications

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=item CONSTRUCTOR

new ( [ARGS] )

=item METHODS

accept([PKG]), timeout([VAL]), sockopt(OPT [, VAL]), sockdomain, socktype,
protocol

=item SUB-CLASSES

=over

=item IO::Socket::INET

=item METHODS

sockaddr (), sockport (), sockhost (), peeraddr (), peerport (), peerhost
()

=item IO::Socket::UNIX

=item METHODS

hostpath(), peerpath()

=back

=item SEE ALSO

=item AUTHOR

=item COPYRIGHT

=head2 IO::lib::IO::File, IO::File - supply object methods for filehandles

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=item CONSTRUCTOR

new ([ ARGS ] ), new_tmpfile

=item METHODS

open( FILENAME [,MODE [,PERMS]] )

=item SEE ALSO

=item HISTORY

=head2 IO::lib::IO::Handle, IO::Handle - supply object methods for I/O
handles

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=item CONSTRUCTOR

new (), new_from_fd ( FD, MODE )

=item METHODS

$fh->fdopen ( FD, MODE ), $fh->opened, $fh->getline, $fh->getlines,
$fh->ungetc ( ORD ), $fh->write ( BUF, LEN [, OFFSET }\] ), $fh->flush,
$fh->error, $fh->clearerr, $fh->untaint

=item NOTE

=item SEE ALSO

=item BUGS

=item HISTORY

=head2 IO::lib::IO::Pipe, IO::pipe - supply object methods for pipes

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=item CONSTRCUTOR

new ( [READER, WRITER] )

=item METHODS

reader ([ARGS]), writer ([ARGS]), handles ()

=item SEE ALSO

=item AUTHOR

=item COPYRIGHT

=head2 IO::lib::IO::Seekable, IO::Seekable - supply seek based methods for
I/O objects

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=item SEE ALSO

=item HISTORY

=head2 IO::lib::IO::Select, IO::Select - OO interface to the select system
call

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=item CONSTRUCTOR

new ( [ HANDLES ] )

=item METHODS

add ( HANDLES ), remove ( HANDLES ), exists ( HANDLE ), handles, can_read (
[ TIMEOUT ] ), can_write ( [ TIMEOUT ] ), has_error ( [ TIMEOUT ] ), count
(), bits(), bits(), select ( READ, WRITE, ERROR [, TIMEOUT ] )

=item EXAMPLE

=item AUTHOR

=item COPYRIGHT

=head2 IO::lib::IO::Socket, IO::Socket - Object interface to socket
communications

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=item CONSTRUCTOR

new ( [ARGS] )

=item METHODS

accept([PKG]), timeout([VAL]), sockopt(OPT [, VAL]), sockdomain, socktype,
protocol

=item SUB-CLASSES

=over

=item IO::Socket::INET

=item METHODS

sockaddr (), sockport (), sockhost (), peeraddr (), peerport (), peerhost
()

=item IO::Socket::UNIX

=item METHODS

hostpath(), peerpath()

=back

=item SEE ALSO

=item AUTHOR

=item COPYRIGHT

=head2 IPC::Open2, open2 - open a process for both reading and writing

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=item WARNING 

=item SEE ALSO

=head2 IPC::Open3, open3 - open a process for reading, writing, and error
handling

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=item WARNING

=head2 Math::BigFloat - Arbitrary length float math package

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

number format, Error returns 'NaN', Division is computed to

=item BUGS

=item AUTHOR

=head2 Math::BigInt - Arbitrary size integer math package

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

Canonical notation, Input, Output

=item EXAMPLES

=item BUGS

=item AUTHOR

=head2 Math::Complex - complex numbers and associated mathematical
functions

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=item OPERATIONS

=item CREATION

=item STRINGIFICATION

=item USAGE

=item ERRORS DUE TO DIVISION BY ZERO

=item BUGS

=item AUTHORS

=head2 Math::Trig - trigonometric functions

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=item TRIGONOMETRIC FUNCTIONS

=over

=item ERRORS DUE TO DIVISION BY ZERO

=item SIMPLE (REAL) ARGUMENTS, COMPLEX RESULTS

=back

=item ANGLE CONVERSIONS

=item BUGS

=item AUTHORS

=head2 NDBM_File - Tied access to ndbm files

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=head2 Net::Ping - check a remote host for reachability

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=over

=item Functions

Net::Ping->new([$proto [, $def_timeout [, $bytes]]]);, $p->ping($host [,
$timeout]);, $p->close();, pingecho($host [, $timeout]);

=back

=item WARNING

=item NOTES

=head2 Net::hostent - by-name interface to Perl's built-in gethost*()
functions

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=item EXAMPLES

=item NOTE

=item AUTHOR

=head2 Net::netent - by-name interface to Perl's built-in getnet*()
functions

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=item EXAMPLES

=item NOTE

=item AUTHOR

=head2 Net::protoent - by-name interface to Perl's built-in getproto*()
functions

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=item NOTE

=item AUTHOR

=head2 Net::servent - by-name interface to Perl's built-in getserv*()
functions

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=item EXAMPLES

=item NOTE

=item AUTHOR

=head2 ODBM_File - Tied access to odbm files

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=head2 Opcode - Disable named opcodes when compiling perl code

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=item NOTE

=item WARNING

=item Operator Names and Operator Lists

an operator name (opname), an operator tag name (optag), a negated opname
or optag, an operator set (opset)

=item Opcode Functions

opcodes, opset (OP, ...), opset_to_ops (OPSET), opset_to_hex (OPSET),
full_opset, empty_opset, invert_opset (OPSET), verify_opset (OPSET, ...),
define_optag (OPTAG, OPSET), opmask_add (OPSET), opmask, opdesc (OP, ...),
opdump (PAT)

=item Manipulating Opsets

=item TO DO (maybe)

=item Predefined Opcode Tags

:base_core, :base_mem, :base_loop, :base_io, :base_orig, :base_math,
:default, :filesys_read, :sys_db, :browse, :filesys_open, :filesys_write,
:subprocess, :ownprocess, :others, :still_to_be_decided, :dangerous

=item SEE ALSO

=item AUTHORS

=head2 Opcode::Safe, Safe - Compile and execute code in restricted
compartments

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

a new namespace, an operator mask

=item WARNING

=over

=item RECENT CHANGES

=item Methods in class Safe

permit (OP, ...), permit_only (OP, ...), deny (OP, ...), deny_only (OP,
...), trap (OP, ...), untrap (OP, ...), share (NAME, ...), share_from
(PACKAGE, ARRAYREF), varglob (VARNAME), reval (STRING), rdo (FILENAME),
root (NAMESPACE), mask (MASK)

=item Some Safety Issues

Memory, CPU, Snooping, Signals, State Changes

=item AUTHOR

=back

=head2 Opcode::ops, ops - Perl pragma to restrict unsafe operations when
compiling

=item SYNOPSIS	

=item DESCRIPTION

=item SEE ALSO

=head2 POSIX - Perl interface to IEEE Std 1003.1

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=item NOTE

=item CAVEATS 

=item FUNCTIONS

_exit, abort, abs, access, acos, alarm, asctime, asin, assert, atan, atan2,
atexit, atof, atoi, atol, bsearch, calloc, ceil, chdir, chmod, chown,
clearerr, clock, close, closedir, cos, cosh, creat, ctermid, ctime,
cuserid, difftime, div, dup, dup2, errno, execl, execle, execlp, execv,
execve, execvp, exit, exp, fabs, fclose, fcntl, fdopen, feof, ferror,
fflush, fgetc, fgetpos, fgets, fileno, floor, fmod, fopen, fork, fpathconf,
fprintf, fputc, fputs, fread, free, freopen, frexp, fscanf, fseek, fsetpos,
fstat, ftell, fwrite, getc, getchar, getcwd, getegid, getenv, geteuid,
getgid, getgrgid, getgrnam, getgroups, getlogin, getpgrp, getpid, getppid,
getpwnam, getpwuid, gets, getuid, gmtime, isalnum, isalpha, isatty,
iscntrl, isdigit, isgraph, islower, isprint, ispunct, isspace, isupper,
isxdigit, kill, labs, ldexp, ldiv, link, localeconv, localtime, log, log10,
longjmp, lseek, malloc, mblen, mbstowcs, mbtowc, memchr, memcmp, memcpy,
memmove, memset, mkdir, mkfifo, mktime, modf, nice, offsetof, open,
opendir, pathconf, pause, perror, pipe, pow, printf, putc, putchar, puts,
qsort, raise, rand, read, readdir, realloc, remove, rename, rewind,
rewinddir, rmdir, scanf, setgid, setjmp, setlocale, setpgid, setsid,
setuid, sigaction, siglongjmp, sigpending, sigprocmask, sigsetjmp,
sigsuspend, sin, sinh, sleep, sprintf, sqrt, srand, sscanf, stat, strcat,
strchr, strcmp, strcoll, strcpy, strcspn, strerror, strftime, strlen,
strncat, strncmp, strncpy, stroul, strpbrk, strrchr, strspn, strstr,
strtod, strtok, strtol, strtoul, strxfrm, sysconf, system, tan, tanh,
tcdrain, tcflow, tcflush, tcgetpgrp, tcsendbreak, tcsetpgrp, time, times,
tmpfile, tmpnam, tolower, toupper, ttyname, tzname, tzset, umask, uname,
ungetc, unlink, utime, vfprintf, vprintf, vsprintf, wait, waitpid,
wcstombs, wctomb, write

=item CLASSES

=over

=item POSIX::SigAction

new

=item POSIX::SigSet

new, addset, delset, emptyset, fillset, ismember

=item POSIX::Termios

new, getattr, getcc, getcflag, getiflag, getispeed, getlflag, getoflag,
getospeed, setattr, setcc, setcflag, setiflag, setispeed, setlflag,
setoflag, setospeed, Baud rate values, Terminal interface values, c_cc
field values, c_cflag field values, c_iflag field values, c_lflag field
values, c_oflag field values

=back

=item PATHNAME CONSTANTS

Constants

=item POSIX CONSTANTS

Constants

=item SYSTEM CONFIGURATION

Constants

=item ERRNO

Constants

=item FCNTL

Constants

=item FLOAT

Constants

=item LIMITS

Constants

=item LOCALE

Constants

=item MATH

Constants

=item SIGNAL

Constants

=item STAT

Constants, Macros

=item STDLIB

Constants

=item STDIO

Constants

=item TIME

Constants

=item UNISTD

Constants

=item WAIT

Constants, Macros

=item CREATION

=head2 Pod::Html, Pod::HTML - module to convert pod files to HTML

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=item ARGUMENTS

help, htmlroot, infile, outfile, podroot, podpath, libpods, netscape,
nonetscape, index, noindex, recurse, norecurse, title, verbose

=item EXAMPLE

=item AUTHOR

=item BUGS

=item SEE ALSO

=item COPYRIGHT

=head2 Pod::Text - convert POD data to formatted ASCII text

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=item AUTHOR

=item TODO

=head2 SDBM_File - Tied access to sdbm files

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=head2 Safe - Compile and execute code in restricted compartments

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

a new namespace, an operator mask

=item WARNING

=over

=item RECENT CHANGES

=item Methods in class Safe

permit (OP, ...), permit_only (OP, ...), deny (OP, ...), deny_only (OP,
...), trap (OP, ...), untrap (OP, ...), share (NAME, ...), share_from
(PACKAGE, ARRAYREF), varglob (VARNAME), reval (STRING), rdo (FILENAME),
root (NAMESPACE), mask (MASK)

=item Some Safety Issues

Memory, CPU, Snooping, Signals, State Changes

=item AUTHOR

=back

=head2 Search::Dict, look - search for key in dictionary file

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=head2 SelectSaver - save and restore selected file handle

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=head2 SelfLoader - load functions only on demand

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=over

=item The __DATA__ token

=item SelfLoader autoloading

=item Autoloading and package lexicals

=item SelfLoader and AutoLoader

=item __DATA__, __END__, and the FOOBAR::DATA filehandle.

=item Classes and inherited methods.

=back

=item Multiple packages and fully qualified subroutine names

=head2 Shell - run shell commands transparently within perl

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=item AUTHOR

=head2 Socket, sockaddr_in, sockaddr_un, inet_aton, inet_ntoa - load the C
socket.h defines and structure manipulators 

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

inet_aton HOSTNAME, inet_ntoa IP_ADDRESS, INADDR_ANY, INADDR_BROADCAST,
INADDR_LOOPBACK, INADDR_NONE, sockaddr_in PORT, ADDRESS, sockaddr_in
SOCKADDR_IN, pack_sockaddr_in PORT, IP_ADDRESS, unpack_sockaddr_in
SOCKADDR_IN, sockaddr_un PATHNAME, sockaddr_un SOCKADDR_UN,
pack_sockaddr_un PATH, unpack_sockaddr_un SOCKADDR_UN

=head2 Symbol - manipulate Perl symbols and their names

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=head2 Sys::Hostname - Try every conceivable way to get hostname

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=item AUTHOR

=head2 Syslog, Sys::Syslog, openlog, closelog, setlogmask, syslog - Perl
interface to the UNIX syslog(3) calls

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

openlog $ident, $logopt, $facility, syslog $priority, $format, @args,
setlogmask $mask_priority, closelog

=item EXAMPLES

=item DEPENDENCIES

=item SEE ALSO

=item AUTHOR

=head2 Term::Cap - Perl termcap interface

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=item EXAMPLES

=head2 Term::Complete - Perl word completion module

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

E<lt>tabE<gt>, ^D, ^U, E<lt>delE<gt>, E<lt>bsE<gt>

=item DIAGNOSTICS

=item BUGS

=item AUTHOR

=head2 Term::ReadLine - Perl interface to various C<readline> packages. If
no real package is found, substitutes stubs instead of basic functions.

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=item Minimal set of supported functions

C<ReadLine>, C<new>, C<readline>, C<addhistory>, C<IN>, $C<OUT>,
C<MinLine>, C<findConsole>, Attribs, C<Features>

=item Additional supported functions

=item EXPORTS

=item ENVIRONMENT

=head2 Test::Harness - run perl standard test scripts with statistics

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=over

=item The test script output

=back

=item EXPORT

=item DIAGNOSTICS

C<All tests successful.\nFiles=%d,  Tests=%d, %s>, C<FAILED tests
%s\n\tFailed %d/%d tests, %.2f%% okay.>, C<Test returned status %d (wstat
%d)>, C<Failed 1 test, %.2f%% okay. %s>, C<Failed %d/%d tests, %.2f%% okay.
%s>

=item SEE ALSO

=item AUTHORS

=item BUGS

=head2 Text::Abbrev, abbrev - create an abbreviation table from a list

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=item EXAMPLE

=head2 Text::ParseWords - parse text into an array of tokens

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=item AUTHORS

=head2 Text::Soundex - Implementation of the Soundex Algorithm as Described
by Knuth

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=item EXAMPLES

=item LIMITATIONS

=item AUTHOR

=head2 Text::Tabs -- expand and unexpand tabs per the unix expand(1) and
unexpand(1)

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=item BUGS

=item AUTHOR

=head2 Text::Wrap - line wrapping to form simple paragraphs

=item SYNOPSIS 

=item DESCRIPTION

=item EXAMPLE

=item BUGS

=item AUTHOR

=head2 Tie::Hash, Tie::StdHash - base class definitions for tied hashes

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

TIEHASH classname, LIST, STORE this, key, value, FETCH this, key, FIRSTKEY
this, NEXTKEY this, lastkey, EXISTS this, key, DELETE this, key, CLEAR this

=item CAVEATS

=item MORE INFORMATION

=head2 Tie::RefHash - use references as hash keys

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=item EXAMPLE

=item AUTHOR

=item VERSION

=item SEE ALSO

=head2 Tie::Scalar, Tie::StdScalar - base class definitions for tied
scalars

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

TIESCALAR classname, LIST, FETCH this, STORE this, value, DESTROY this

=item MORE INFORMATION

=head2 Tie::SubstrHash - Fixed-table-size, fixed-key-length hashing

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=item CAVEATS

=head2 Time::Local - efficiently compute time from local and GMT time

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=head2 Time::gmtime - by-name interface to Perl's built-in gmtime()
function

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=item NOTE

=item AUTHOR

=head2 Time::localtime - by-name interface to Perl's built-in localtime()
function

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=item NOTE

=item AUTHOR

=head2 Time::tm - internal object used by Time::gmtime and Time::localtime

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=item AUTHOR

=head2 UNIVERSAL - base class for ALL classes (blessed references)

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

isa ( TYPE ), can ( METHOD ), VERSION ( [ REQUIRE ] ), isa ( VAL, TYPE ),
can ( VAL, METHOD )

=head2 User::grent - by-name interface to Perl's built-in getgr*()
functions

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=item NOTE

=item AUTHOR

=head2 User::pwent - by-name interface to Perl's built-in getpw*()
functions

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=item NOTE

=item AUTHOR

=head1 AUXILIARY DOCUMENTATION

Here should be listed all the extra programs' documentation, but they
don't all have manual pages yet:

=item a2p

=item s2p

=item find2perl

=item h2ph

=item c2ph

=item h2xs

=item xsubpp

=item pod2man

=item wrapsuid

=head1 AUTHOR

Larry Wall <F<larry@wall.org>>, with the help of oodles
of other folks.

