.\"	$OpenBSD: MAKEDEV.8,v 1.6 2003/01/25 00:04:19 jmc Exp $
.\" Copyright (c) 1991 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	from: @(#)MAKEDEV.8	5.2 (Berkeley) 3/22/91
.\"
.Dd January 27, 2001
.Dt MAKEDEV 8 macppc
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm MAKEDEV
.Nd create system and device special files
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm MAKEDEV
.Ar name
.Op Ar ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The shell script
.Nm MAKEDEV ,
found in the
.Pa /dev
directory, is used to create the common special files.
See
.Xr intro 4
for a more complete discussion of special files.
.Pp
.Nm MAKEDEV
takes any number of device names as arguments, where the names are
the common abbreviation for the device.
There are four special device names,
.Ar all ,
.Ar std ,
.Ar local
and
.Ar wscons .
If
given,
.Ar all
creates device files for all devices on the macppc.
If units are expected for a device,
.Nm MAKEDEV
will supply the standard numbers.
The
.Ar std
argument creates only the standard devices for the macppc.
Finally
.Ar local
is for devices specific to the local site, and executes the shell file
.Pa MAKEDEV.local .
.Pp
The macppc supports the following devices.
Where a device name is followed by a hash sign ("#"), the hash sign
must be replaced by a unit number.
.Pp
.Sy Pseudo\-names
.Bl -tag -width wsmouse indent -compact
.It Ar all
All known devices for the macppc.
.It Ar std
The standard devices (console, drum, fd/*, klog, kmem, mem, null, stderr,
stdin, stdout, tty, zero).
.It Ar local
Configuration specific devices.
.It Ar wscons
All wscons-related devices.
.El
.Pp
.Sy Device\-names
.Bl -tag -width wsmouse indent -compact
.It Ar bpf#
Berkeley packet filters.
.It Ar ccd#
.Dq Concatenated
disk drives.
.It Ar cd#
SCSI CD-ROM drives.
.It Ar ch#
SCSI media changer drives.
.It Ar fd#
.Dq Floppy
disk drives.
.It Ar lkm
Loadable kernel modules.
.It Ar pty#
Set of 16 master and slave pseudo terminals.
.It Ar raid#
RAIDframe disk drives.
.It Ar random
In-kernel random number generator.
.It Ar rd#
.Dq Ramdisk
pseudo-disks.
.It Ar sd#
SCSI disk drives.
.It Ar ss#
SCSI scanners.
.It Ar st#
SCSI tape drives.
.It Ar tty#
Serial ports.
.It Ar ttyC#
Wscons console screens.
.It Ar tun#
Network tunnel devices.
.It Ar uk#
.Dq Unknown SCSI
devices.
.It Ar usb#
USB control devices.
.It Ar uhid#
USB generic HID devices.
.It Ar ulpt#
USB printer devices.
.It Ar urio#
USB Diamond Multimedia Rio 500.
.It Ar ugen#
USB generic devices.
.It Ar utty#
USB serial ports.
.It Ar vnd#
.Dq File
pseudo-disks.
.It Ar wd#
IDE disk drives.
.It Ar wskbd
Keyboard devices for wscons.
.It Ar wsmouse
Mouse devices for wscons.
.It Ar wsmux
Multiplexor devices for wscons.
.It Ar xfs#
XFS filesystem devices.
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width /dev -compact
.It Pa /dev
The special file directory.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr intro 4 ,
.Xr config 8 ,
.Xr mknod 8
