.\"	$OpenBSD: hier.7,v 1.65 2007/05/31 19:19:58 jmc Exp $
.\"	$NetBSD: hier.7,v 1.7 1994/11/30 19:07:10 jtc Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)hier.7	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/5/93
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: May 31 2007 $
.Dt HIER 7
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm hier
.Nd layout of filesystems
.Sh DESCRIPTION
A sketch of the filesystem hierarchy.
.Bl -tag -width "/altroot/"
.It /
Root directory.
.It /altroot/
Alternate (backup) location for the root
.Pq Sq /
filesystem
(see
.Xr afterboot 8 ) .
.It /bin/
User utilities fundamental to both single and multi-user environments.
These programs are statically compiled and therefore do not depend on any
system libraries to run.
.It /bsd
Pure kernel executable
(the operating system loaded into memory at boot-time).
.It /bsd.mp
Pure kernel executable
for multi-processor machines.
.It /bsd.rd
Installation kernel.
The built-in RAM disk contains utilities which can be run
without an external file system, so this kernel is useful
for limited system maintenance too.
.It /dev/
Block and character device files.
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width MAKEDEV -compact
.It MAKEDEV
Script for creating device files (see
.Xr MAKEDEV 8 ) .
.It fd/
File descriptor files (see
.Xr fd 4 ) .
.El
.It /emul/
Base directory for alternate areas searched first when system call
emulation is in effect (see
.Xr sysctl 8
and the system compat pages:
.Xr compat_aout 8 ,
.Xr compat_bsdos 8 ,
.Xr compat_freebsd 8 ,
.Xr compat_hpux 8 ,
.Xr compat_ibcs2 8 ,
.Xr compat_linux 8 ,
.Xr compat_osf1 8 ,
.Xr compat_sunos 8 ,
.Xr compat_svr4 8 ,
and
.Xr compat_ultrix 8 ) .
.It /etc/
System configuration files and scripts.
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width "raddb/servers/" -compact
.It localtime
Local time zone information (see
.Xr ctime 3 ) .
.It X11/
Configuration files for the X11 window system.
.It afs/
AFS configuration files.
.It amd/
Contains map files for
.Xr amd 8 .
.It authpf/
Configuration files for the authenticating gateway user shell (see
.Xr authpf 8 ) .
.It disklabels/
Backup disklabels (see
.Xr disklabel 8 ) .
.It firmware/
Firmware files for various devices.
.It fonts/
Configuration files for X11 window system fonts.
.It hotplug/
Scripts for the hotplug daemon,
.Xr hotplugd 8 .
.It isakmpd/
Configuration files for
.Xr isakmpd 8 .
.It kerberosV/
Configuration files for the Kerberos version V subsystem (see
.Xr kerberos 8 ) .
.It mail/
.Xr sendmail 8
configuration files (including
.Xr aliases 5 ) .
.It mtree/
.Xr mtree
configuration files (see
.Xr mtree 8 ) .
.It ppp/
.Xr pppd
configuration files (see
.Xr pppd 8 ) .
.It raddb/servers/
List of radius servers and their associated shared secrets for
.Xr login_radius 8 .
.It skel/
Example
.Sq .\&
(dot) files for new accounts.
.It skey/
One-time password user database for
.Xr skey 1 .
.It sliphome/
Configuration files for
.Xr sliplogin 8 .
.It ssh/
Configuration files for
.Xr ssh 1
and
.Xr sshd 8 .
.It ssl/
OpenSSL configuration files (see
.Xr openssl 1 ) .
.It systrace/
Sample
.Xr systrace 1
policies.
.El
.It /home/
Default location for user home directories.
.It /mnt/
Empty directory commonly used by
system administrators as a temporary mount point.
.It /root/
Default home directory for the superuser.
.It /sbin/
System programs and administration utilities
fundamental to both single and multi-user environments.
These programs are statically compiled and therefore do not depend on any
system libraries to run.
.It /stand/
Programs used in a stand-alone environment.
.It /tmp/
Temporary files;
the contents
of
.Pa /tmp
are
.Em not
preserved across a system reboot.
.It /usr/
Contains the majority of user utilities and applications.
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width "libdata/" -compact
.It X11R6/
Files required for the X11 window system.
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width "include/" -compact
.It bin/
X11 binaries.
.It include/
X11-specific C include files.
.It lib/
X11 archive libraries.
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width "pkgconfig/" -compact
.It X11/
Default configuration files for X11 and companion applications (see
.Xr xdm 1 ,
.Xr xkb 1 ,
.Xr twm 1 ) .
.It modules/
Various libraries and drivers for the X11 window system.
.It pkgconfig/
Package metadata for
.Xr pkgconfig 1 .
.It xserver/
Data files used by the X server.
.El
.Pp
.It man/
X11 manual pages.
.It share/
Architecture independent data files.
.El
.Pp
.It bin/
Common utilities, programming tools, and applications.
.It games/
Useful and semi-frivolous programs.
.It include/
Standard C include files.
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width "kerberosV/" -compact
.It altq/
C include files for the altq subsystem (see
.Xr pf.conf 5 ) .
.It arpa/
C include files for Internet service protocols.
.It crypto/
C include files for the cryptographic libraries.
.It ddb/
C include files for the kernel debugger (see
.Xr ddb 4 ) .
.It dev/
Device-specific C include files.
.It g++/
Include files for the GNU C++ compiler.
.It isofs/
C include files for the ISO standard file systems (currently only cd9660).
.It kerberosV/
C include files for the KerberosV authentication subsystem (see
.Xr kerberos 8 ) .
.It libmilter/
C include files for the
.Xr sendmail 8
mail filter API.
.It machine/
Machine specific C include files.
.It miscfs/
C include files for miscellaneous file systems.
.It net/
Miscellaneous network C include files.
.It net80211/
C include files for 802.11 wireless networking.
.It netatalk/
C include files for the AppleTalk protocol.
.It netbt/
C include files for the Bluetooth protocol.
.It netinet/
C include files for Internet standard protocols (see
.Xr inet 4 ) .
.It netinet6/
C include files for Internet protocol version 6 (see
.Xr inet6 4 ) .
.It netipx/
C include files for the IPX protocol.
.It netnatm/
C include files for native mode ATM access.
.It nfs/
C include files for NFS (Network File System).
.It objc/
C include files for GNU Objective-C.
.It openssl/
C include files for the OpenSSL library (see
.Xr ssl 8 ) .
.It protocols/
C include files for Berkeley service protocols.
.It readline/
C include files for the
.Xr readline 3
library.
.It rpc/
C include files for remote procedure calling (see
.Xr rpc 5 ) .
.It rpcsvc/
C include files for rpcsvc.
.It scsi/
SCSI-specific C include files.
.It sys/
System C include files (kernel data structures).
.It ufs/
C include files for UFS (the U-word File System).
.It uvm/
C include files for the virtual memory interface.
.It xfs/
C include files for the XFS file system.
.El
.Pp
.It lib/
System libraries.
See
.Xr intro 3
for a description of library types.
.It libdata/
Miscellaneous utility data files.
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width "ldscripts/" -compact
.It cvs/
Placeholder for user contributed
.Xr cvs 1
code/scripts.
.It ldscripts/
ELF linker scripts.
.It lint/
Prebuilt
.Xr lint 1
libraries.
.It perl5/
Data files for
.Xr perl 1 .
.It ssh/
Data file for
.Xr ssh 1 .
.El
.Pp
.It libexec/
System daemons and utilities (executed by other programs).
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width "cvs/contrib/" -compact
.It auth/
Login scripts used to authenticate users (for BSD authentication).
.It cvs/contrib/
User contributed
.Xr cvs 1
scripts.
.It lpr/
Contains the lpf filter for
.Xr lpd 8 .
.It sendmail/
Contains the
.Xr sendmail 8
binary.
.It sm.bin/
Binaries to be run by
.Xr smrsh 8 .
.El
.Pp
.It lkm/
Loadable kernel modules.
.It local/
Local executables, libraries, etc.
.It mdec/
Boot-related executables.
.It obj/
Architecture specific target tree produced by building the
.Pa /usr/src
tree.
.It ports/
The
.Ox
ports collection (see
.Xr ports 7 ) .
.It sbin/
System daemons and utilities (executed by users).
.It share/
Architecture independent data files.
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width "groff_font/" -compact
.It calendar/
Variety of pre-fab calendar files (see
.Xr calendar 1 ) .
.It dict/
Word lists (see
.Xr look 1
and
.Xr spell 1 ) .
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width propernames -compact
.It american
Spellings preferred in American usage.
.It british
Spellings preferred in British usage.
.It eign
List of common words.
.It propernames
List of proper names.
.It stop
Forms that would otherwise be derivable by
.Xr spell 1
from words in the other files in
.Pa /usr/share/dict ,
but should not be accepted.
.It web2
Words from Webster's 2nd International.
.It web2a
Additional words from Webster's.
.It words
Common words.
.It papers/
Reference databases (see
.Xr refer 1 ) .
.It special/
Custom word lists.
.El
.Pp
.It doc/
Miscellaneous documentation;
source for most of the
.Bx 4.3
manuals.
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width html/ -compact
.It html/
HTML documentation.
.It psd/
.Ux
Programmer's Supplementary Documents (PSD).
.It smm/
.Ux
System Manager's Manuals (SMM).
.It usd/
.Ux
User's Supplementary Documents (USD).
.El
.Pp
.It games/
ASCII text files used by various games.
.It groff_font/
GNU troff shared fonts.
.It info/
Texinfo source files.
.It lkm/
Example source code implementing several lkm module types (see
.Xr lkm 4 ) .
.It locale/
Locales for multi-language support.
.It man/
Manual pages.
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width man3p/ -compact
.It cat*/
Preformatted
.Xr man 1
pages.
Layout similar to man (below).
.It man1/
General commands (tools and utilities).
.It man2/
System calls and error numbers.
.It man3/
Libraries.
.It man3p/
.Xr perl 1
programmers' reference guide.
.It man4/
Special files and hardware support.
.It man5/
File formats.
.It man6/
Games.
.It man7/
Miscellaneous.
.It man8/
System maintenance and operation commands.
.It man9/
Kernel internals.
.El
.Pp
.It misc/
Miscellaneous system-wide ASCII text files.
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width terminfo.db -compact
.It termcap
Terminal characteristics database (see
.Xr termcap 5 ) .
.It termcap.db
Hash database file containing terminal descriptions (see
.Xr cap_mkdb 1 ) .
.It terminfo.db
Terminal information database.
.It pcvtfonts/
Additional i386 console fonts.
.El
.Pp
.It mk/
Templates for
.Xr make
(see
.Xr make 1 ) .
.It nls/
National Language Support (NLS) catalogs.
.It pf/
Sample configuration files for
.Xr pf 4 .
.It sendmail/
Example files for
.Xr sendmail 8 .
.It tabset/
Tab description files for a variety of terminals; used in
the termcap file (see
.Xr termcap 5 ) .
.It texinfo/
Templates for
.Xr texinfo 5 .
.It tmac/
Text processing macros (see
.Xr nroff 1
and
.Xr troff 1 ) .
.It vi/catalog/
Catalog files for the
.Xr vi 1
text editor.
.It zoneinfo/
Time zone configuration information (see
.Xr tzfile 5 ) .
.El
.Pp
.It src/
BSD and/or local source files.
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width "kerberosV/" -compact
.It bin/
Source for files in
.Pa /bin .
.It distrib/
Source for making distribution sets.
.It etc/
Source for files in
.Pa /etc .
.It games/
Source for files in
.Pa /usr/games .
.It gnu/
Source for files under GPL or other restrictive licenses.
.It include/
Source for files in
.Pa /usr/include .
.It kerberosV/
Source for Kerberos version V.
.It lib/
Source for files in
.Pa /usr/lib .
.It libexec/
Source for files in
.Pa /usr/libexec .
.It regress/
Regress framework.
.It sbin/
Source for files in
.Pa /sbin .
.It share/
Source for files in
.Pa /usr/share .
.It sys/
Kernel source files.
.It usr.bin/
Source for files in
.Pa /usr/bin .
.It usr.sbin/
Source for files in
.Pa /usr/sbin .
.It xenocara/
Source for the X11 window system.
.El
.El
.It /var/
Multi-purpose log, temporary, transient, and spool files.
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width "preserve/" -compact
.It account/
System accounting files.
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width Fl -compact
.It acct
Execution accounting file (see
.Xr acct 5 ) .
.El
.Pp
.It audit/
Audit logs.
.It authpf/
PID file for
.Xr authpf 8 .
.It backups/
Miscellaneous backup files.
.It crash/
Crash dumps written by
.Xr savecore 8 .
.It cron/
Spools and configuration files for
.Xr cron 8
and
.Xr at 1 .
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width Fl -compact
.It atjobs/
.Xr at 1
jobs.
.It tabs/
Individual
.Xr crontab 1
files.
.El
.Pp
.It db/
Miscellaneous, automatically generated system-specific database files.
.It empty/
Generic
.Xr chroot 2
directory.
.It games/
Miscellaneous game status and log files.
.It log/
Miscellaneous system log files.
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width Fl -compact
.It wtmp
Login/logout log (see
.Xr wtmp 5 ) .
.It rdist/
Log files for
.Xr rdist 1 .
.El
.Pp
.It mail/
User mailbox files.
.It msgs/
Database for
.Xr msgs 1 .
.It named/
Chroot directory for
.Xr named 8 .
.It quotas/
Filesystem quota information files.
.It run/
System information files describing various info about the
system since it was booted.
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width Fl -compact
.It utmp
Database of current users (see
.Xr utmp 5 ) .
.It sudo/
Timestamps for
.Xr sudo 8 .
.El
.Pp
.It rwho/
.Xr rwho
data files (see
.Xr rwhod 8 ,
.Xr rwho 1 ,
and
.Xr ruptime 1 ) .
.It spool/
Miscellaneous printer and mail system spooling directories.
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width "clientmqueue/" -compact
.It clientmqueue/
Mail messages waiting to be processed by the sendmail clientmqueue helper
task (see
.Xr sendmail 8 ) .
.It ftp/
Commonly ~ftp; the anonymous ftp root directory.
.It lock/
Lock files for utilities such as
.Xr cu 1 ,
.Xr tip 1
and
.Xr uucp .
.It mqueue/
Undelivered mail queue (see
.Xr sendmail 8 ) .
.It output/
Line printer spooling directories.
.It uucp/
.Xr uucp
spool directory.
.It uucppublic/
Commonly ~uucp; public uucp temporary directory.
.El
.Pp
.It tmp/
Temporary files that are kept between system reboots.
.It www/
ServerRoot point for
.Xr httpd 8 .
.It yp/
Files for the
.Xr yp 8
subsystem.
.El
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr apropos 1 ,
.Xr find 1 ,
.Xr locate 1 ,
.Xr whatis 1 ,
.Xr whereis 1 ,
.Xr which 1
.Sh HISTORY
A
.Nm
manual page appeared in
.At v7 .
