.\" $OpenBSD: packages-specs.7,v 1.13 2010/07/11 07:25:10 espie Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001 Marc Espie
.\"
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE DEVELOPERS ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE DEVELOPERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: July 11 2010 $
.Dt PACKAGES-SPECS 7
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm packages-specs
.Nd binary package names specifications
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Each package has a name consisting of at most three parts:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
stem-version[-flavors]
.Ed
.Pp
The
.Ar stem
part identifies the package.
It may contain some dashes, but its form is mostly conventional.
For instance, japanese packages usually
start with a
.Sq ja
prefix, e.g.,
.Qq ja-kterm-6.2.0 .
.Pp
The
.Ar version
part starts at the first digit that follows a
.Sq - ,
and goes on up to the following
.Sq - ,
or to the end of the package name, if no flavor modifier is present.
All packages must have a version number.
Normally, the version number directly matches the original software
distribution version number, or release date.
In case there are substantial changes in the
.Ox
package, a patch level marker should be appended, e.g.,
.Sq p0 ,
.Sq p1 ...
For example, assuming that the screen package for release 2.8 was
named
.Qq screen-2.9.8
and that an important security patch led to a newer package,
the new package would be called
.Qq screen-2.9.8p0 .
Obviously, these specific markers are reserved for
.Ox
purposes.
See
.Ev REVISION
in
.Xr bsd.port.mk 5 .
.Pp
In some rare cases, version numbering changes completely upstream.
A version style marker, of the form
.Sq v0 ,
.Sq v1 ...
can be appended to the version number (after the patch level)
to denote the new numbering scheme.
See
.Ev EPOCH
in
.Xr bsd.port.mk 5 .
.Pp
Flavored packages will also contain a list of flavors after the version
identifier, in a canonical order determined by
.Ev FLAVORS
in the corresponding port's
.Pa Makefile .
For instance, kterm has an xaw3d flavor:
.Qq ja-kterm-xaw3d .
.Pp
Note that, to uniquely identify the version part, no flavor shall ever
start with a digit.
Usually, flavored packages are slightly different versions of the same
package that offer very similar functionalities.
.Sh CONFLICTS
Most conflicts between packages are handled on a package name basis.
Unless the packages have been specially prepared, it is
normally not possible to install two packages with the same
.Ar stem .
.Pp
Note that the
.Ar stem
ends at the
.Ar version
part.
So, for instance,
.Qq kdelibs-1.1.2
and
.Qq kdelibs-2.1.1
conflict.
But
.Qq openldap-2.0.7
and
.Qq openldap-client-2.0.7
don't.
Neither do
.Qq qt-1.45
and
.Qq qt2-3.0 .
.Sh DEPENDENCIES
Packages may depend on other packages, as specified by their port's
Makefile, in a
.Ev BUILD_DEPENDS ,
.Ev LIB_DEPENDS ,
.Ev REGRESS_DEPENDS
or
.Ev RUN_DEPENDS .
All those conform to
.Bd -literal -offset indent
[legacy]:[pkgspec]:directory,[-multi],[flavor...]
.Ed
.Pp
The
.Ar [legacy]
part of the dependency corresponds to older semantics that have been
deprecated.
.Pp
The
.Ar directory,[-multi],[flavor...]
part of the dependency is always used to obtain the default dependency for
the given package (the package that will be built and installed if no package
is found).
The corresponding package name is also used as a package specification,
after removing any version and flavor requirements.
.Pp
If the
.Sq pkgspec
part is left empty, any package with the right stem will do: in effect,
the pkgspec used is
.Sq stem-* .
.Pp
An explicit specification such as
.Qq ghostscript-*
may be used to ask for any version of package ghostscript,
or a more specific version number may be required, such as
.Qq png-1.0.7 .
Version numbers may also include ranges, separated by commas, so for
instance,
.Qq foo->=1.3
would match any foo with version at least 1.3, and
.Qq foo->=1.3,<=1.5
would match any version of foo between 1.3 and 1.5, inclusive.
.Pp
If the flavor specification is left blank, any flavor will do.
Note that most default package names don't contain flavor specification,
which means that any flavor will do.
For instance, in
.Bd -literal -offset indent
LIB_DEPENDS=::graphics/aalib
.Ed
.Pp
both
.Qq aalib-1.2
and
.Qq aalib-1.2-no_x11
will do.
To restrict the specification to packages that match flavor
.Sq f ,
append
.Sq -f .
To restrict the specification to packages that do not match flavor
.Sq f ,
append
.Sq -!f .
In the preceding case, one may use
.Bd -literal -offset indent
LIB_DEPENDS=:aalib-*-!no_x11:graphics/aalib
.Ed
.Pp
to ensure the no_x11 flavor is not picked.
.Sh DEPENDENCIES RESOLUTION
Several packages may be specified for a dependency:
.Qq foo-*|bar-*
will match either any version of package foo, or any version of package bar.
In the general case, each package holds a tree of dependencies.
Resolution occurs at
.Xr pkg_add 1
time, and all dependencies are tracked only as far as needed.
.Pp
For instance, if package
.Qq foo-1.0
depends on either
.Qq bar-*
or
.Qq fuzz-* ,
and
.Qq bar-2.0
depends
on
.Qq toughluck-* ,
.Xr pkg_add 1
will first check whether
.Qq bar-*
or
.Qq fuzz-*
is installed.
If either is there, the
.Qq toughluck-*
dependency will never be examined.
It would only be used in the case where neither
.Qq bar-*
nor
.Qq fuzz-*
are present, thus
.Xr pkg_add 1
would decide to bring in
.Qq bar-2.0 ,
and so would check on
.Qq toughluck-* .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr pkg_add 1 ,
.Xr bsd.port.mk 5 ,
.Xr library-specs 7 ,
.Xr packages 7 ,
.Xr ports 7
.Sh HISTORY
Support for these package specifications first appeared in
.Ox 2.9 .
