.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1997 David E. O'Brien
.\"
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE DEVELOPERS ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE DEVELOPERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" $OpenBSD: ports.7,v 1.82 2010/07/29 17:38:13 steven Exp $
.\" $FreeBSD: ports.7,v 1.7 1998/06/23 04:38:50 hoek Exp $
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: July 29 2010 $
.Dt PORTS 7
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm ports
.Nd contributed applications
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Ox
Ports Collection
is the infrastructure used to create binary packages for third party
applications.
.Pp
For normal usage refer to
.Xr packages 7 ,
as most ports produce binary packages which are available from
the official CD-ROM, or on a neighborly FTP mirror.
.Pp
Each port contains any patches necessary to make the original
application source code compile and run on
.Ox .
Compiling an application is as simple as typing
.Ic make
in the port directory!
The
.Pa Makefile
automatically fetches the
application source code, either from a local disk or via ftp, unpacks it
on the local system, applies the patches, and compiles it.
If all goes well, simply type
.Ic sudo make install
to install the application.
.Pp
For more information about using ports, see
The
.Ox
Ports System
.Pq Pa http://www.openbsd.org/faq/ports/ports.html .
For information about creating new ports, see
the
.Ox
Porter's Handbook
.Pa http://www.openbsd.org/faq/ports/ .
.Pp
For a detailed description of the build process, see
.Xr bsd.port.mk 5 .
.Sh PORTS MASTER MAKEFILE
The ports master Makefile, normally located in
.Pa /usr/ports/Makefile
(but see
.Ev PORTSDIR
below)
offers a few useful targets.
.Bl -tag -width configure
.It Ar index
rebuild the ports complete index,
.Pa /usr/ports/INDEX
.It Ar mirror-maker
see
.Xr mirroring-ports 7 ,
.It Ar pkglocatedb
build a
.Xr pkg_mklocatedb 1
database file and place it in
.Pa ${PORTSDIR}/packages/${MACHINE_ARCH}/ftp ,
for use by
.Xr locate 1 ,
.It Ar print-index
display the contents of the index in a user-friendly way,
.It Ar search
invoked with a key, e.g.,
.Ic make search key=foo ,
retrieve information relevant to a given port (obsolescent).
.El
.Pp
Starting in
.Ox 4.0 ,
there is a port,
.Pa databases/sqlports
that builds an sqlite database containing most information relevant to
every port in the ports tree.
This database can be searched using any tool able to manipulate such
databases, for instance sqlitebrowser, or a script language with an
sqlite interface, e.g., perl, python, ocaml, lua, php5.
.Sh SELECTING A SET OF PORTS
One can define
.Ev SUBDIRLIST
to point to a file that contains a list of
.Ev FULLPKGPATHs ,
one per line, to build stuff only in some directories.
.Pp
If
.Pa /usr/ports/INDEX
is up to date, it is possible to select subsets by setting the following
variables on the command line:
.Bl -tag -width category
.It Va key
package name matching the given key,
.It Va category
port belonging to category,
.It Va maintainer
port maintained by a given person.
.El
.Pp
For instance, to invoke clean on all ports in the x11 category, one can say:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
	$ make category=x11 clean
.Ed
.Pp
The index search is done by a perl script, so all regular expressions from
.Xr perlre 1
apply.
.Sh TARGETS
Individual ports are controlled through a few documented targets.
Some of these targets work recursively through subdirectories, so that
someone can, for example, install all of the net
ports.
.Pp
The variable
.Ev SKIPDIR
can hold a set of package directories to avoid during recursion.
These are always specified relative to the root of the ports tree,
and can contain a flavor or subpackage part
.Po
see
.Xr packages-specs 7
.Pc .
.Ev SKIPDIR
is handled by a case statement, and so can contain simple wildcards, e.g.,
SKIPDIR='editors/openoffice*' .
.Pp
The variable
.Ev STARTDIR
can hold the path to a starting directory.
The recursion will skip all directories up to that package path.
This can be used to resume a full build at some specific point without having
to go through thousands of directories first.
.Pp
The variable
.Ev STARTAFTER
can hold the path to a starting directory.
The recursion will skip all directories up to and including that package path.
This can be used to resume a full build after some specific point without having
to go through thousands of directories first.
.Pp
In case of failure in a subdirectory, the shell fragment held in
.Ev REPORT_PROBLEM
is executed.
Default behavior is to call exit, but this can be overridden on the command
line, e.g., to avoid stopping after each problem.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ make REPORT_PROBLEM=true
.Ed
.Pp
If
.Ev REPORT_PROBLEM_LOGFILE
is non empty, then
.Ev REPORT_PROBLEM
will default to:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
echo $$d ($@) >$${REPORT_PROBLEM_LOGFILE}
.Ed
.Pp
That is, any failure will append the faulty directory name together
with the target that failed to
.Pa ${REPORT_PROBLEM_LOGFILE}
and proceed.
.Pp
The targets that do this are
.Ar all , build , checksum , clean ,
.Ar configure , extract , fake ,
.Ar fetch , install , distclean ,
.Ar deinstall , reinstall , package ,
.Ar link-categories , unlink-categories ,
.Ar describe , show , regress ,
.Ar lib-depends-check , homepage-links , manpages-check ,
.Ar license-check , all-dir-depends , build-dir-depends ,
.Ar run-dir-depends
and
.Ar readmes .
.Pp
Target names starting with _ are private to the ports infrastructure,
should not be invoked directly, and are liable to change without notice.
.Pp
In the following list, each target will run the preceding targets
in order automatically.
That is,
.Ar build
will be run
.Pq if necessary
by
.Ar install ,
and so on all the way to
.Ar fetch .
In typical use, one will only run
.Ar install
explicitly (as normal user, with
.Ev SUDO
defined in
.Pa /etc/mk.conf ) ,
or
.Ar build
(as user), then
.Ar install
(as root).
.Bl -tag -width configure
.It Ar fetch
Fetch all of the files needed to build this port from the site(s)
listed in
.Ev MASTER_SITES .
See
.Ev FETCH_CMD
and
.Ev MASTER_SITE_OVERRIDE .
.It Ar checksum
Verify that the fetched distfile matches the one the port was tested against.
Defining
.Ev NO_CHECKSUM
to
.Dv Yes
will skip this step.
Sometimes, distfiles change without warning.
The main
.Ox
mirror should still hold a copy of old distfiles, indexed by checksum.
Using
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ make checksum REFETCH=true
.Ed
.Pp
will try to get a set of distfiles that match the recorded checksum.
.It Ar depends
Install
.Pq or package if only compilation is necessary
any dependencies of the current port.
When called by the
.Ar extract , install
or
.Ar fetch
targets, this is run in scattered pieces as
.Ar lib-depends , build-depends
and
.Ar run-depends .
Defining
.Ev NO_DEPENDS
to
.Dv Yes
will skip this step.
.It Ar extract
Expand the distfile into a work directory.
.It Ar patch
Apply any patches that are necessary for the port.
.It Ar configure
Configure the port.
Some ports will ask questions during this stage.
See
.Ev INTERACTIVE
and
.Ev BATCH .
.It Ar build
Build the port.
This is the same as calling the
.Ar all
target.
.It Ar fake
Pretend to install the port under a subdirectory of the work directory.
.It Ar package
Create a binary package from the fake installation.
The package is a .tgz file that can be used to
install the port on several machines with
.Xr pkg_add 1 .
.It Ar install
Install the resulting package.
.El
.Pp
The following targets are not run during the normal install process.
.Bl -tag -width fetch-list
.It Ar print-build-depends print-run-depends
Print an ordered list of all the compile and run dependencies.
.It Ar clean
Remove the expanded source code.
This does not recurse to dependencies unless
.Ev CLEANDEPENDS
is defined to
.Dv Yes .
.It Ar distclean
Remove the port's distfile(s).
This does not recurse to dependencies.
.It Ar regress
Runs the ports regression tests.
Usually needs a completed build.
.It Ar reinstall
Use this to restore a port after using
.Xr pkg_delete 1 .
.It Ar update
Alternative target to
.Ar install .
Does not install new packages, but updates existing ones.
.It Ar link-categories
Populate the ports tree with symbolic links for each category the port
belongs to.
.It Ar unlink-categories
Remove the symbolic links created by
.Ar link-categories .
.El
.Sh LOCK INFRASTRUCTURE
The ports tree can be used concurrently for building several ports at the
same time, thanks to a locking mechanism.
By default, locks are stored under
.Pa /tmp/portslocks .
Defining
.Ev LOCKDIR
will point them elsewhere, or disable the mechanism if set to an empty value.
.Pp
All locks will be stored in
.Pa ${LOCKDIR} .
.Ev LOCK_CMD
should be used to acquire a lock, and
.Ev UNLOCK_CMD
should be used to release it.
.Pp
Locks are named ${LOCKDIR}/${FULLPKGNAME}.lock,
or ${LOCKDIR}/${DISTFILE}.lock for distfiles fetching.
.Pp
The default values of
.Ev LOCK_CMD
and
.Ev UNLOCK_CMD
are appropriate for most uses.
.Pp
The locking protocol follows a big-lock model: each top-level target
in a port directory will acquire the corresponding lock, complete its job,
then release the lock, e.g., running
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ make build
.Ed
.Pp
will acquire the lock, run the port
through
.Ar fetch ,
.Ar checksum ,
.Ar extract ,
.Ar patch ,
.Ar configure ,
.Ar build ,
then release the lock.
If dependencies are involved, they will invoke top-level targets in other
directories, and thus acquire some other locks as well.
.Pp
The infrastructure contains some protection against acquiring the same lock
twice, thus recursive locking is not needed for
.Ev LOCK_CMD .
.Pp
Starting with
.Ox 4.3 ,
the infrastructure supports manual locking: the targets
.Ar lock
and
.Ar unlock
can be used to acquire and release individual locks.
Both these targets output a shell command that must be used to update
environment variables.
Manual locking can be used to protect a directory against interference
by an automated build job, while the user is looking at or modifying a
given port.
.Sh UPDATING PACKAGES
Instead of deinstalling each package and rebuilding from scratch, the
ports tree can be used to update installed packages.
The
.Ar update
target will replace an installed package using
.Xr pkg_add 1
in replacement mode.
If
.Ev FORCE_UPDATE
is set to
.Sq Yes ,
dependencies will also be updated first, and packages will always be updated,
even if there is no difference between the old and the new packages.
.Pp
Updates use a mechanism similar to bulk cookies and deposit cookies in
the
.Ev UPDATE_COOKIES_DIR .
See the next section for more details, since most of the fine points of
bulk package building also apply to updates.
.Pp
There are bugs in the ports tree, most related to libtool, which make some
updates prefer the already installed libraries instead of the newly built
ones.
This shows up as undefined references in libraries, in which case there
is no choice but to proceed the old way: deinstall the offending package
and everything built on top of it, build and install new packages.
.Sh BULK PACKAGE BUILDING
The ports tree contains some mechanisms to save space when building
large collections of packages.
If
.Ev TRUST_PACKAGES
and
.Ev BULK
are set to
.Sq Yes
for a package build, some shortcuts are taken to allow cleaning up working
directories on the fly.
.Pp
Some important caveats apply:
the packages already built in the package repository are assumed to be
up-to-date, the database of installed packages is assumed
to be accurate (TRUST_PACKAGES), and the bulk cookies are assumed to be
up-to-date (BULK).
.Pp
This means that newer iterations of package buildings should make sure
those conditions are met, which entails erasing old package repository,
removing packages that need to be rebuilt from the base of installed
packages, and cleaning up old bulk cookies.
.Pp
If any of these conditions is not met, the package build may run into weird
problems.
.Pp
Some experimental framework allows for building a new set of packages
without first uninstalling the old ones: move the old packages away,
remove all bulk cookies and update cookies, and use the
.Ar update
target with
.Ev FORCE_UPDATE
set to
.Sq Yes
for the build.
.Sh NETWORK CONFIGURATION
The variables pertaining to network access have been marshalled into
.Pa ${PORTSDIR}/infrastructure/templates/network.conf.template .
.Pp
To customize that setup, copy that file into
.Pa ${PORTSDIR}/infrastructure/db/network.conf
and edit it.
.Bl -tag -width MASTER_SITES
.It Ev MASTER_SITE_OPENBSD
If set to
.Dv Yes ,
include the master
.Ox
site when fetching files.
.It Ev MASTER_SITE_FREEBSD
If set to
.Dv Yes ,
include the master
.Fx
site when fetching files.
.It Ev MASTER_SITE_OVERRIDE
Go to this site first for all files.
.El
.Sh FLAVORS
The
.Ox
ports tree comes with a mechanism called
.Ic FLAVORS .
Thanks to this mechanism, users can select specific options provided by
a given port.
.Pp
If a port is "flavored", there should be a terse description of
available flavors in the
.Pa pkg/DESCR
file.
.Pp
For example, the misc/screen port comes with a flavor called
.Ic static .
This changes the building process so a statically compiled version of
the program will be built.
To avoid confusion with other packages or flavors,
the package name will be extended with a dash-separated list of
the selected flavors.
.Pp
In this instance, the corresponding package will be called
.Ic screen-4.0.2-static .
.Pp
To build a port with a specific flavor, just pass
.Ev FLAVOR
in the environment of the
.Xr make 1
command:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ env FLAVOR="static" make package
.Ed
.Pp
and of course, use the same settings for the subsequent invocations of make:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ env FLAVOR="static" make install
$ env FLAVOR="static" make clean
.Ed
.Pp
More than one flavor may be specified:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ cd /usr/ports/mail/exim
$ env FLAVOR="mysql ldap" make package
.Ed
.Pp
Specifying a flavor that does not exist is an error.
Additionally, some ports impose some further restrictions on flavor
combinations, when such combinations do not make sense.
.Pp
Lots of ports can be built without X11 requirement and accordingly
have a
.Ic no_x11
flavor.
.Pp
Flavor settings are not propagated to dependencies.
If a specific combination is needed, careful hand-building of the
required set of packages is still necessary.
.Sh MULTI_PACKAGES
The
.Ox
ports tree comes with a mechanism called
.Ic MULTI_PACKAGES .
This mechanism is used when a larger package is broken down into
several smaller components referred to as subpackages.
.Pp
If a port is "subpackaged", each subpackage will have
a corresponding description in the
.Pa pkg/DESCR-subpackage
file.
.Pp
For example, the database/mysql port comes with subpackages called
.Ic -main ,
.Ic -tests
and
.Ic -server .
.Pp
In this instance, the build will yield multiple packages, one
corresponding to each subpackage.
In the case of our mysql example,
the packages will be called
.Ic mysql-client-<version> ,
.Ic mysql-tests-<version> ,
and
.Ic mysql-server-<version> .
.Pp
To install/deinstall a specific subpackage of a port, you may
.Xr pkg_add 1
them manually, or alternatively, you may set
.Ev SUBPACKAGE
in the environment of the
.Xr make 1
command during the install/deinstall phase:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ env SUBPACKAGE="-server" make install
$ env SUBPACKAGE="-server" make deinstall
.Ed
.Sh PORT VARIABLES
These can be changed in the environment, or in
.Pa /etc/mk.conf
for persistence.
They can also be set on make's command line, e.g.,
.Ic make VAR_FOO=foo
.Pp
Boolean variables should be set to
.Dv Yes
instead of simply being defined, for uniformity and future compatibility.
.Pp
Variable names starting with _ are private to the ports infrastructure,
should not be changed by the user, and are liable to change without notice.
.Bl -tag -width MASTER_SITES
.It Ev PORTSDIR
Location of the ports tree
(usually
.Pa /usr/ports ) .
.It Ev DISTDIR
Where to find/put distfiles, normally
.Pa distfiles/
in
.Ev PORTSDIR .
.It Ev PACKAGE_REPOSITORY
Used only for the
.Ar package
target; the base directory for the packages tree, normally
.Pa packages
in
.Ev PORTSDIR .
If this directory exists, the package tree will be (partially) constructed.
.It Ev BULK_COOKIES_DIR
During bulk package building, used to store cookies for already built
packages to avoid rebuilding them, since the actual
working directory will already have been cleaned out.
Defaults to bulk/${MACHINE_ARCH} under
.Ev PORTSDIR .
.It Ev UPDATE_COOKIES_DIR
Used to store cookies for package updates, defaults to update/${MACHINE_ARCH}
under
.Ev PORTSDIR .
If set to empty, it will revert to a file under ${WRKDIR}.
.It Ev LOCALBASE
Where to install things in general
(usually
.Pa /usr/local ) .
.It Ev MASTER_SITES
Primary sites for distribution files if not found locally.
.It Ev CLEANDEPENDS
If set to
.Dv Yes ,
let
.Sq clean
recurse to dependencies.
.It Ev FETCH_CMD
Command to use to fetch files.
Normally
.Xr ftp 1 .
.It Ev FETCH_PACKAGES
If set to
.Dq Yes ,
try to use
.Xr pkg_add 1
to install the missing packages from
.Ev PKG_PATH .
.It Ev PATCH_DEBUG
If defined, display verbose output when applying each patch.
.It Ev INTERACTIVE
If defined, only operate on a port if it requires interaction.
.It Ev BATCH
If defined, only operate on a port if it can be installed 100% automatically.
.It Ev USE_SYSTRACE
Set to
.Sq Yes
to protect the
.Ar configure , build ,
and
.Ar fake
targets with
.Xr systrace 1 .
This way it is ensured that ports do not make any network connections
during build or write outside some well defined directories.
The filter list is stored in
.Pa ${PORTSDIR}/infrastructure/db/systrace.filter .
.El
.Sh USING A READ-ONLY PORTS TREE
Select read-write partition(s) that can accommodate working directories, the
distfiles repository, and the built packages.
Set
.Ev WRKOBJDIR ,
.Ev PACKAGE_REPOSITORY ,
.Ev BULK_COOKIES_DIR ,
.Ev UPDATE_COOKIES_DIR
and
.Ev DISTDIR
in
.Pa /etc/mk.conf
accordingly.
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width /usr/ports/xxxxxxxx -compact
.It Pa /usr/ports
The default ports directory.
.It Pa /usr/ports/Makefile
Ports master Makefile.
.It Pa /usr/ports/INDEX
Ports index.
.It Pa /usr/ports/infrastructure/mk/bsd.port.mk
The ports main engine.
.It Pa /usr/ports/infrastructure/templates/network.conf.template
Network configuration defaults.
.It Pa /usr/ports/infrastructure/db/network.conf
Local network configuration.
.It Pa /usr/ports/infrastructure/db/systrace.filter
Filter list for systrace.
.It Pa /usr/ports/infrastructure/db/user.list
List of users and groups created by ports.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr make 1 ,
.Xr pkg_add 1 ,
.Xr pkg_create 1 ,
.Xr pkg_delete 1 ,
.Xr pkg_info 1 ,
.Xr bsd.port.mk 5 ,
.Xr port-modules 5 ,
.Xr packages 7
.Pp
The
.Ox
Ports System:
.Pa http://www.openbsd.org/faq/ports/ports.html
.Pp
The
.Ox
Porter's Handbook:
.Pa http://www.openbsd.org/faq/ports/
.Sh HISTORY
.Nm The Ports Collection
appeared in
.Fx 1.0 .
It was introduced in
.Ox
by Ejovi Nuwere, with much initial effort by Angelos D. Keromytis.
Maintenance passed then to Marco S. Hyman, and then to Christopher Turan.
It is currently managed by Marc Espie, Brad Smith, and Christian Weisgerber,
along with a host of others found at ports@openbsd.org.
.Sh AUTHORS
This man page was originated by
David O'Brien, from the
.Fx
project.
.Sh BUGS
Ports documentation is split over several places ---
.Xr bsd.port.mk 5 ,
the
.Dq Ports Collection
section of the
.Fx
handbook, the
.Dq Porting Existing Software
section of the
.Fx
handbook,
and some man pages.
.Ox
adds a few web pages to further confuse the issue.
.Pp
Use of the
.Dv MANPS
and
.Dv MANZ
variables is not supported.
