.\"
.\" Copyright 1992, 93, 94, 95, 96, 97, 1998 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2, or (at your option)
.\" any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; see the file COPYING.  If not, write to the
.\" Free Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330,
.\" Boston, MA 02111-1307, USA.
.\"
.Dd February 15, 2003
.Dt RCS2LOG 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm rcs2log
.Nd RCS to ChangeLog generator
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm rcs2log
.Bk -words
.Op Fl c Ar changelog
.Op Fl h Ar hostname
.Op Fl i Ar indent
.Op Fl l Ar length
.Op Fl R
.Op Fl r Ar option
.Op Fl t Ar tabwidth
.Op Fl u Ar login<TAB>fullname<TAB>mailaddr
.Op Fl v
.Op Fl -help
.Op Fl -version
.Op Ar file ...
.Ek
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility generates a change log prefix from RCS files (perhaps in the CVS
repository) and the ChangeLog (if any).
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl c Ar changelog
Output a change log prefix to
.Ar changelog
(default ChangeLog).
.It Fl h Ar hostname
Use
.Ar hostname
in change log entries (default current host).
.It Fl i Ar indent
Indent change log lines by
.Ar indent
spaces (default 8).
.It Fl l Ar length
Try to limit log lines to
.Ar length
characters (default 79).
.It Fl R
If no
.Ar file Ns Li (s)
are given and RCS is used, recurse through working directory.
.It Fl r Ar option
Pass
.Ar option
to subsidiary log command.
.It Fl t Ar tabwidth
Tab stops are every
.Ar tabwidth
characters (default 8).
.It Fl u Ar "login<TAB>fullname<TAB>mailaddr"
Assume
.Ar login
has
.Ar fullname
and
.Ar mailaddr .
.It Fl v
Append RCS revision to file names in log lines.
.It Fl -help
Output help.
.It Fl -version
Output version number.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr rcs 1 ,
.Xr rcsintro 1 ,
.Xr rlog 1 ,
.Xr rcsfile 5
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Paul Eggert Aq Mt eggert@twinsun.com
