@c Copyright (c) 1997 - 2000 Kungliga Tekniska Högskolan
@c (Royal Institute of Technology, Stockholm, Sweden).
@c All rights reserved.
@c $arla: ack.texi,v 1.20 2002/05/26 14:49:33 lha Exp $

@node  Acknowledgments, Index, Authors, Top
@comment  node-name,  next,  previous,  up
@appendix Acknowledgments

lwp and rx are copyrighted by IBM.  We're grateful to Derrick J
Brashear @email{shadow@@dementia.org} and Jim Doyle @email{jrd@@bu.edu} 
for making them available.

the @code{rxkad} implementation was written by Björn Grönvall 
@email{bg@@sics.se} and is also part of the kth-krb distribution.

Some of the files in @file{libroken} come from Berkeley by the way of
NetBSD/FreeBSD

@code{editline} was written by Simmule Turner and Rich Salz.

The code for gluing these together were written by ourselves.

Bugfixes, documentation, encouragement, and code has been contributed by:

@multitable @columnfractions .5 .5

@item Aaron M. Ucko 
@tab @email{amu@@MIT.EDU}

@item Alec Wolman 
@tab @email{wolman@@cs.washington.edu}

@item Alexandra Ellwood 
@tab @email{lxs@@MIT.EDU}

@item Brad Keryan 
@tab @email{keryan@@andrew.cmu.edu}

@item Constantine Sapuntzakis 
@tab @email{csapuntz@@openbsd.org}

@item Dan Winship 
@tab @email{danw@@MIT.EDU}

@item Derrick J Brashear 
@tab @email{shadow@@dementia.org}

@item Harald Barth 
@tab @email{haba@@pdc.kth.se}

@item Jim Doyle 
@tab @email{jrd@@bu.edu}

@item John Davison 
@tab @email{davisoja@@clarkson.edu}

@item John Hawkinson 
@tab @email{jhawk@@MIT.EDU}

@item Karl Ramm 
@tab @email{kcr@@MIT.EDU}

@item Mark Eichin 
@tab @email{eichin@@kitten.gen.ma.us}

@item Per Boussard T/ED 
@tab @email{Per.Boussard@@era-t.ericsson.se}

@item Dima Ruban 
@tab @email{dima@@best.net}

@item Max 
@tab @email{davros@@cyclone.Stanford.EDU}

@item Andrzej Filinski 
@tab @email{andrzej@@daimi.aau.dk}

@item Chuck Lever 
@tab @email{chuckl@@netscape.com}

@item WUWEI SHEN 
@tab @email{wwshen@@engin.umich.edu}

@item Cheng Jin 
@tab @email{chengjin@@eecs.umich.edu}

@item Paul Callaway 
@tab @email{pcallawa@@umich.edu}

@item Brandon S. Allbery 
@tab @email{allbery@@ece.cmu.edu}

@item Ken Raeburn 
@tab @email{raeburn@@raeburn.org}

@item Jeffrey Hutzelman 
@tab @email{jhutz+@@cmu.edu}

@item Hee-Seok Heo 
@tab @email{hsheo@@postech.ac.kr}

@item Paul Ewing Jr. 
@tab @email{ewing@@ima.umn.edu}

@item Niklas Hallqvist 
@tab @email{niklas@@appli.se}

@item Marko Asplund 
@tab @email{aspa@@hip.fi}

@item Chris Wing 
@tab @email{wingc@@engin.umich.edu}

@item Simon Josefsson 
@tab @email{jas@@pdc.kth.se}

@item Magnus Lindström 
@tab @email{magnus.lindstrom@@s3.kth.se}

@item Greg Stark 
@tab @email{gsstark@@mit.edu}

@item Matt 
@tab @email{deberg@@mit.edu}

@item Björn Grönvall 
@tab @email{bg@@sics.se}

@item Tino Schwarze 
@tab @email{tino.schwarze@@informatik.tu-chemnitz.de}

@item David Sanderson 
@tab @email{david@@transarc.ibm.com}

@item Roman Hodek 
@tab @email{Roman.Hodek@@informatik.uni-erlangen.de}

@item Michael Sperber 
@tab @email{sperber@@informatik.uni-tuebingen.de}

@item Dr. Lex Wennmacher 
@tab @email{wennmach@@geo.Uni-Koeln.DE}

@item Janne Johansson 
@tab @email{jj@@dynarc.se}

@item Dr A V Le Blanc 
@tab @email{LeBlanc@@mcc.ac.uk}

@item Dave Morrison 
@tab @email{dave@@bnl.gov}

@item Jochen Saile 
@tab @email{saile@@sfs.nphil.uni-tuebingen.de}

@item Chris Kuklewicz 
@tab @email{chrisk@@MIT.EDU}

@item Nickolai Zeldovich 
@tab @email{kolya@@MIT.EDU}

@item Adam Thornton 
@tab @email{adam@@sinenomine.net}

@item Neale Ferguson 
@tab @email{Neale.Ferguson@@SoftwareAG-usa.com}

@item Hidvegi 
@tab @email{hzoli@@austin.ibm.com}

@item Todd T. Fries 
@tab @email{todd@@fries.net}

@item Andrea Campi 
@tab @email{andrea@@webcom.it}

@item William Uther 
@tab @email{will+@@cs.cmu.edu}


@end multitable

If you have done something and are not mentioned here, please send
mail to @email{arla-drinkers@@stacken.kth.se}.

If you are mentioned here and have not contributed, that's because we
expect you to.



