\input texinfo @c -*- texinfo -*-
@c %**start of header
@c $Id: arla.texi,v 1.1 2000/09/11 14:40:52 art Exp $
@setfilename arla.info
@settitle ARLA
@iftex
@afourpaper
@end iftex
@c some sensible characters, please?
@tex
\input latin1.tex
@end tex
@setchapternewpage on
@syncodeindex pg cp
@c %**end of header

@ifinfo
@dircategory Arla
@direntry
* Arla: (arla).           Arla - The Free AFS Clone
@end direntry
@end ifinfo

@c title page
@titlepage
@title Arla
@subtitle A Free AFS Clone from KTH
@subtitle Edition 0.1, for version 0.34
@subtitle 1999 - 2000
@author Love Hörnquist-Åstrand
@author Assar Westerlund
@author Harald Barth
@author last updated $Date: 2000/09/11 14:40:52 $

@comment This text will show up in the output of texi2html
@def@fnotsupported{THIS TEXT MAY CONTAIN GARBLED OUTPUT BECAUSE THIS VIEW FORMAT DOES NOT SUPPORT TEXI FUNCTIONS}

@def@copynext{@vskip 20pt plus 1fil@penalty-1000}
@def@copyrightstart{}
@def@copyrightend{}
@page
@copyrightstart
Copyright (c) 1998 - 1999 Kungliga Tekniska Högskolan 
(Royal Institute of Technology, Stockholm, Sweden).
All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:

1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
   documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
   must display the following acknowledgement:
     This product includes software developed by Kungliga Tekniska
     Högskolan and its contributors.

4. Neither the name of the Institute nor the names of its contributors
   may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
   without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE INSTITUTE AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE INSTITUTE OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
SUCH DAMAGE.

@copynext

Copyright (c) 1988, 1990, 1993
     The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:

1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
   documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
   must display the following acknowledgement:
     This product includes software developed by the University of
     California, Berkeley and its contributors.

4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
   may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
   without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
SUCH DAMAGE.

@copynext

Copyright 1992 Simmule Turner and Rich Salz.  All rights reserved. 

This software is not subject to any license of the American Telephone 
and Telegraph Company or of the Regents of the University of California. 

Permission is granted to anyone to use this software for any purpose on
any computer system, and to alter it and redistribute it freely, subject
to the following restrictions:

1. The authors are not responsible for the consequences of use of this
   software, no matter how awful, even if they arise from flaws in it.

2. The origin of this software must not be misrepresented, either by
   explicit claim or by omission.  Since few users ever read sources,
   credits must appear in the documentation.

3. Altered versions must be plainly marked as such, and must not be
   misrepresented as being the original software.  Since few users
   ever read sources, credits must appear in the documentation.

4. This notice may not be removed or altered.

@copynext

/*
****************************************************************************
*        Copyright IBM Corporation 1988, 1989 - All Rights Reserved        *
*                                                                          *
* Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its    *
* documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted,         *
* provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and        *
* that both that copyright notice and this permission notice appear in     *
* supporting documentation, and that the name of IBM not be used in        *
* advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of the software      *
* without specific, written prior permission.                              *
*                                                                          *
* IBM DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE, INCLUDING ALL *
* IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS, IN NO EVENT SHALL IBM *
* BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY      *
* DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER  *
* IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING   *
* OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.    *
****************************************************************************
*/

@copyrightend
@end titlepage

@c Less filling! Tastes great!
@iftex
@parindent=0pt
@global@parskip 6pt plus 1pt
@global@chapheadingskip = 15pt plus 4pt minus 2pt 
@global@secheadingskip = 12pt plus 3pt minus 2pt
@global@subsecheadingskip = 9pt plus 2pt minus 2pt
@end iftex
@ifinfo
@paragraphindent 0
@end ifinfo

@ifinfo
@node Top,  , (dir), (dir)
@comment  node-name,  next,  previous,  up
@top Arla

Arla is a free AFS implementation from KTH.

@end ifinfo

@menu
* Introduction::                
* Description of AFS infrastructure::
* Organization of data::
* Parts of Arla::          
* Debugging::
* Porting::
* Authors::
* Oddities::
* Arla timeline::
* Acknowledgments::             
@end menu
@c * What is AFS::           
@c * Building and Installing::     
@c * Unreleased parts of the arla suite::
@c * Things that might be done better::  

@include intro.texi
@c @include whatisafs.texi
@c @include install.texi
@include afs-basics.texi
@include storage.texi
@include partsofarla.texi
@c @include milko.texi
@include debugging.texi
@include porting.texi
@include oddities.texi
@include timeline.texi
@include authors.texi
@include ack.texi

@c @shortcontents
@contents

@bye

