@c Copyright (c) 1998 - 2000 Kungliga Tekniska Högskolan
@c (Royal Institute of Technology, Stockholm, Sweden).
@c All rights reserved.

@c $arla: intro.texi,v 1.16 2002/05/26 14:48:26 lha Exp $

@node Introduction, AFS infrastructure, Top, Top
@comment  node-name,  next,  previous,  up
@chapter Introduction

@quotation
@strong{Caution:} Parts of this package are not yet stable software.
If something doesn't work, it's probably because it doesn't. If you 
don't have backup of your data, take backup.
@end quotation

@section What is Arla?

Arla is a free AFS implementation. Some of the goals are:

@itemize @bullet
@item
to have an implementation that is free and can be used for adding and
playing with cool stuff, like support for disconnected-mode. Implement
features you can't get from commercial AFS.
@item
to provide an alternative to Transarc's and OpenAFS AFS-clients and
server implementations.
@item
to add support for platfroms that don't have AFS support from Transarc
or OpenAFS today.
@end itemize

This release is known to work on the following platforms: NetBSD,
OpenBSD, FreeBSD, Linux, Solaris, Darwin/MacOS X.

Earlier releases are known to work on current or earlier versions of the
following platforms: SunOS, AIX, IRIX, Digital UNIX. Some fixes might
be necessary to make Arla work.

There is or has been done work to support the following platforms: HPUX,
Fujitsu UXP/V. Some development is necessary to make Arla work.

There is work going on to support the following platform: Windows
NT/2000. Contributions are very welcome.

@section Status

Arla has the following features (quality varies between
stable and not implemented):

@itemize @bullet
@item
a rxgen implementation called ydr (stable).
@item
a cache manager replacing Transarc's afsd. The cache managers
quality depends on platform: *BSD, Linux i386 and Solaris are stable, 
others platforms are not as tested ane therefore not as stable.
@item
partly implemented fs, vos, pts commands. Commands typically issued
by users are stable, commands issued by administrators may return
unmotivated errors or are not implemented yet.
@item
an implementaion of rxkad written outside USA without any export 
restrictions (stable).
@item
a server implementation called milko, containing file server, 
volume server and protection server. The file server has an
API to the storage backend(s). Milko is still unstable and
not fit for production yet.
@end itemize

@section Bug reports

@cindex Bug reports
@cindex Comments

If you find bugs in this software, make sure it is a genuine bug and not
just a part of the code that isn't implemented.

Bug reports should be sent to @email{arla-drinkers@@stacken.kth.se}. Please
include information on what machine and operating system (including
version) you are running, what you are trying to do, what happens, what
you think should have happened, an example for us to repeat, the output
you get when trying the example, and a patch for the problem if you have
one. Please make any patches with @code{diff -u} or @code{diff -c}.

Suggestions, comments and other non bug reports are also welcome.

@section Mailing list

@cindex Mailing list
@cindex Mail archives
@cindex Archives

There are two mailing lists with talk about
Arla. @email{arla-announce@@stacken.kth.se} is a low-volume announcement
list, while @email{arla-drinkers@@stacken.kth.se} is for general
discussion.

There is also commit list
@email{arla-commit@@stacken.kth.se}.  Send a message to
@email{LIST-request@@stacken.kth.se} to subscribe.

The list are achived on
@url{http://www.stacken.kth.se/lists/}.

Please note that the mailinglists have a policy of subscriber only
posting. So if you want to mail a message to the list, subscribe to it
first, otherwise it wont be posted on the list.
