@c Copyright (c) 2002 Kungliga Tekniska Högskolan
@c (Royal Institute of Technology, Stockholm, Sweden).
@c All rights reserved.

@c $arla: pioctl.texi,v 1.5 2002/06/02 17:52:28 lha Exp $

@chapter Arla pioctl's

This chaper documents arla pioctl's. Arla's pioct are in the @code{A}
range of the pioctls. OpenAFS uses @code{O} and orignal Transarc uses
@code{V}.

@enumerate

@code{AIOC_STATISTICS}

XXX max constants

@enumerate

@item
@code{opcode STATISTICS_OPCODE_LIST}

Get a specific host/partition entry.

@item
@code{opcode STATISTICS_OPCODE_GETENTRY}

Get a specific entry. The 5 values that are passed in are: opcode
(STATISTICS_OPCODE_GETENTRY), ipv4-host-address, partition,
type-of-data, slot in the histogram.

Possible types of data are:

@enumerate

@item
@code{STATISTICS_REQTYPE_FETCHSTATUS}

@item
@code{STATISTICS_REQTYPE_FETCHDATA}

@item
@code{STATISTICS_REQTYPE_BULKSTATUS}

@item
@code{STATISTICS_REQTYPE_STOREDATA}

@item
@code{STATISTICS_REQTYPE_STORESTATUS}

@end enumerate

@end enumerate

@code{AIOC_PTSNAMETOID}

Return a pts name to id for a cell, the cell is referenced by the file
that is passed into the request, or by name.

XXX document format

@code{AIOC_GETCACHEPARAMS}

Common format In: an int32_t that is the opcode.  Out: a int64_t that
describes the requisted value.

@enumerate

@item
@code{GETCACHEPARAMS_OPCODE_HIGHBYTES}
        
Get the high bytes watermark.

@item
@code{GETCACHEPARAMS_OPCODE_USEDBYTES}
        
Get the current used bytes.

@item
@code{GETCACHEPARAMS_OPCODE_LOWBYTES}

Get the low bytes watermark.

@item
@code{GETCACHEPARAMS_OPCODE_HIGHVNODES}

Get the high vnode watermark.

@item
@code{GETCACHEPARAMS_OPCODE_USEDVNODES}
        
Get the current used vnodes.

@item
@code{GETCACHEPARAMS_OPCODE_LOWVNODES}

Get the low vnode watermark.

@end enumerate


@end enumerate

