@c $Id: servers.texi,v 1.1 2000/09/11 14:40:53 art Exp $

@c
@c  This file contain random junk that should be ordered some day
@c


@section YDR

@code{Ydr} is a rxgen replacement that is generating a lot more stuff
then rxgen (like headerfiles). It also does the same thing in one run
instead of three (rxgen does one run for ss.c cs.c and .h, and each time
passes the whole data thru cpp).

@code{Ydr} was created when there was no free rx package.

Things to remeber about ydr and ydr generated code:

@itemize @bullet

@item When a server function is done out mashalling and writing out data
it will free all data that contains VARRAYs. The functions you are
intressed in is @code{generate_server_stub} and @code{genfree}.

@item When a server functions fail (ie returns != 0), mashalling of 
out-data is not done, and out-data is not freed, instead rx_Error() is
called with that error (See @code{generate_server_stub}.

@item To use ydr (to describe when is codeing a struct or running ydr on 
a file) is called ydra.

@end itemize


@section CellServDB

Transarc users a flat file called @code{CellServDB} to distribute the
knowledge of what cells exist in the world. There is a way to represent
that kind of information in DNS, but Transarc never implemented that in
their software. Arla uses both ways to build its view of the AFS world.
In spite of being organized in IPnumber - name pairs, where the name
parts resemble comments, both values are used by Transarc software and
confusion may arise if they are not synchronized with each other.

@example

>stacken.kth.se            # Stacken Computer Club, KTH, Sweden
130.237.234.3              #milko.stacken.kth.se
130.237.234.43             #hot.stacken.kth.se
130.237.237.230            #fishburger.stacken.kth.se

@end example

Again, please note that the text after the # in the cell-name is a
comment, @strong{but} the hostnames after the # on the rows of an
IP-address is @strong{not} a comment. The host and the ip-address needs
to point at the same computer.

@c Creations of a volume
@c VOLSER_ListPartions
@c      VL_GetEntryByNameN   -> VL_NOENT
@c      VOLSER_CreateVolume
@c      VOLSER_SetFlags
@c      VOLSER_EndTrans    (rcode ignored ?)
@c      VL_CreateEntryN


