.\" 	$OpenBSD: pxaip.4,v 1.9 2005/11/17 05:31:09 uwe Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2005, Miodrag Vallat.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
.\" DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT,
.\" INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
.\" (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
.\" SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
.\" STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN
.\" ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
.\" POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd January 4, 2005
.Dt PXAIP 4 zaurus
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm pxaip
.Nd PXA2x0 Integrated Peripheral Bus
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Cd "pxaip0   at mainbus?"
.Pp
.Cd "pxaintc0 at pxaip?"
.Cd "pxagpio0 at pxaip?"
.Cd "pxadmac0 at pxaip?"
.Cd "scoop0   at pxaip?"
.Cd "scoop1   at pxaip?"
.Cd "saost0   at pxaip? addr 0x40a00000 size 0x20"
.Cd "zts0     at pxaip?"
.Cd "zkbd0    at pxaip?"
.Cd "pxaudc0  at pxaip?"
.Cd "ohci0    at pxaip?"
.Cd "com0     at pxaip? addr 0x40100000 intr 22"
.Cd "com1     at pxaip? addr 0x40200000 intr 21"
.Cd "zaudio0  at pxaip?"
.Cd "pxapcic0 at pxaip?"
.Cd "lcd0     at pxaip?"
.Cd "zssp0    at pxaip?"
.Cd "apm0     at pxaip?"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
driver provides a generic interface to the integrated peripheral bus found
on the Intel PXA210, PXA250, PXA260 and PXA270 processors.
.Pp
Companion drivers provide access to the various resources:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -compact -width tenletters -offset indent
.It Xr apm 4
Power manager.
.It Xr com 4
NS16550-compatible asynchronous serial ports.
.It Xr lcd 4
On-board LCD display.
.It Xr ohci 4
OHCI USB controller.
.It Xr pxadmac 4
DMA controller.
.It Xr pxagpio 4
GPIO controller.
.It Xr pxaintc 4
Interrupt controller.
.It Xr pxapcic 4
CF/PCMCIA controller.
.It Xr pxaudc 4
USB client controller.
.It Xr saost 4
Built-in timer, compatible with the SA-1110 processor timer.
.It Xr scoop 4
Compact Flash slot and GPIO controller.
.It Xr zaudio 4
Audio controller.
.It Xr zkbd 4
System keyboard.
.It Xr zrc 4
Remote control.
.It Xr zssp 4
SSP for inter-chip communication.
.It Xr zts 4
Touch screen.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr apm 4 ,
.Xr autoconf 4 ,
.Xr com 4 ,
.Xr intro 4 ,
.Xr lcd 4 ,
.Xr ohci 4 ,
.Xr pxadmac 4 ,
.Xr pxagpio 4 ,
.Xr pxaintc 4 ,
.Xr pxapcic 4 ,
.Xr pxaudc 4 ,
.Xr saost 4 ,
.Xr scoop 4 ,
.Xr zaudio 4 ,
.Xr zkbd 4 ,
.Xr zrc 4 ,
.Xr zssp 4 ,
.Xr zts 4 ,
.Xr config 8
.Sh HISTORY
Support for the PXA2x0 family appeared in
.Ox 3.7 .
