.\" $OpenBSD: zaudio.4,v 1.5 2007/05/31 19:19:57 jmc Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2005 David Gwynne <dlg@openbsd.org>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: May 31 2007 $
.Dt ZAUDIO 4 zaurus
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm zaudio
.Nd Zaurus audio device
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Cd "zaudio0 at pxaip?"
.Cd "audio* at zaudio?"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
driver interfaces the sound hardware found on the Zaurus with the
.Xr audio 4
framework.
Sound support on the Zaurus is provided by the Inter-IC Sound (I2S)
Controller which is used to transfer samples to a Wolfson Microelectronics
WM8750 audio codec.
The WM8750 is controlled via the PXA2x0 I2C Controller.
.Pp
The hardware is capable of using both the internal speaker and headphone
socket for the playback of 8- and 16-bit audio samples at rates
ranging from 8kHz to 48kHz.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr audio 4 ,
.Xr intro 4 ,
.Xr pxaip 4
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
device driver first appeared in
.Ox 3.8 .
.Sh AUTHORS
The
.Nm
driver was written by
.An Christopher Pascoe Aq pascoe@openbsd.org .
.Sh CAVEATS
Recording is unimplemented in the
.Nm
driver.
.Pp
The
.Nm
driver only supports the hardware found on the Zaurus C3000, C3100, and C3200,
though support for the C860 is planned for the future.
