.\" $OpenBSD: zkbd.4,v 1.17 2011/06/24 19:47:48 naddy Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2004 Theo de Raadt <deraadt@openbsd.org>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: June 24 2011 $
.Dt ZKBD 4 zaurus
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm zkbd
.Nd Zaurus keyboard support
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Cd "zkbd0  at pxaip?"
.Cd "wskbd* at zkdb?"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
driver provides support for the native keyboard found on the
Zaurus.
Access to the keyboard is through the
.Xr wskbd 4
driver.
.Sh LAYOUT
The Zaurus keyboard uses some strange chording behaviours to make
certain key combinations show up.
The left-hand Japanese key beside Ctrl (kana/hira) is mapped as the ALT key.
The non-obvious key mappings are explained here:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width "xxxxxxxxxxxxx" -compact -offset indent
.It Li \&Fn u
{
.It Li \&Fn i
}
.It Li \&Fn d
`
.It Li Calendar
F1
.It Li Address
F2
.It Li Mail
F3
.It Li Home
F4
.It Li Menu
F5
.It Li Cancel
ESC
.It Li OK
Enter
.It Li Rear Toggle
Up and Down
.It Li Rear OK
Right
.It Li Rear Cancel
Left
.It Li \&Fn Up
Page Up
.It Li \&Fn Down
Page Down
.It Li \&Fn Left
Home
.It Li \&Fn Right
End
.El
.Pp
On/Off is special: pressing the key will immediately suspend the system.
Pressing the key while the Zaurus is suspended will cause it to resume.
Pressing the key longer than 3 seconds will do a nice halt if
the
.Va hw.allowpowerdown
.Xr sysctl 8
variable is 1.
.Pp
All keyboard input (including the On/Off key) is ignored if the display is
shut.
.Pp
Additional keys can be generated by a remote control plugged into the
headphone jack \- see
.Xr zrc 4 .
For information on the use and configuration of the keyboard refer to
.Xr wskbd 4 .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr intro 4 ,
.Xr pxaip 4 ,
.Xr wskbd 4 ,
.Xr zrc 4 ,
.Xr sysctl 8
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
driver
appeared in
.Ox 3.7 .
