.\"	$OpenBSD: gsc.4,v 1.10 2003/02/26 15:05:07 david Exp $
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1999 Michael Shalayeff
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by Michael Shalayeff.
.\" 4. The name of the author may not be used to endorse or promote products
.\"    derived from this software without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd April 4, 1999
.Dt GSC 4
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm gsc
.Nd General System Connect bus on HP9000 series 700 workstations
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Cd "gsc* at lasi?"
.Cd "gsc* at asp?"
.Cd "gsc* at wax?"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
This is core I/O bus for all HP9000/700 series workstations.
All I/O subsystems connect to this bus.
The devices can be either on seperate chips, expansion
cards or on an integrated megacell, like the LASI MBA.
.Pp
The
.Tn GSC
bus is a 32-bit wide, address and data multiplexed bus.
In its "standard" implementation it has a maximum throughput of 160MB/s,
the "2x" implementation reaches up to 250MB/s.
Some HPPA CPUs directly attach to this bus, namely the PA7100LC and PA7300LC.
.Pp
As for the expansion cards, there appeared different form-factors, depending on
bus-speed (standard or 2x) and specific models.
The standard formfactor is the "EISA form-factor", cards that look like
typical EISA cards with a different connector (100-pin female EBBL).
The Series 712 have their own special type
of GSC expansion cards, called the "GIO form-factor", which is quite small and
mostly has only one VLSI chip on it (in most cases LASI/WAX).
Newer systems sometimes feature the "HSC formfactor", that is a 1U-VME
card-like expansion card with a 100-pin male pin+socket connector.
Mixing cards with different speeds is supported but downgrades
the performance of the whole I/O-subsystem. 
.Pp
.Sh SUPPORTED DEVICES
The system includes machine-dependent
.Tn GSC
drivers, sorted by driver name:
.Bl -tag -width pcdisplay -offset indent
.It Xr com 4
RS-232 ports.
.It Xr gsckbc 4
PC-style keyboard controller.
.It Xr harmony 4
CS4215/AD1849 audio.
.It Xr hil 4
Human Interface Loop, for HP-proprietary input devices like keyboard and mice.
.It Xr ie 4
Intel i82596 DX/CA 32-bit LAN coprocessor.
.It Xr lpt 4
Centronics printer port.
.It Xr osiop 4
SCSI I/O processor.
.El
.Pp
Some of these 
.Tn GSC
devices also have
.Tn PCI
,
.Tn EISA 
or
.Tn ISA 
equivalents.
These are listed in
.Xr pci 4 ,
.Xr eisa 4 ,
or
.Xr isa 4 ,
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr asp 4 ,
.Xr cpu 4 ,
.Xr intro 4 ,
.Xr lasi 4
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
driver
appeared in
.Ox 2.4 .
