.\"	$OpenBSD: ie.4,v 1.5 2003/01/07 20:37:10 mickey Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001 Paul Weissmann
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by Paul Weissmann
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd March 12, 2001
.Dt IE 4 hppa
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm ie
.Nd Intel i82596 DX/CA LAN coprocessor as found in HP9000 workstations
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Cd "ie0 at gsc? irq 8"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
interface provides access to the 10 Mb/s
.Tn Ethernet
network via the 
.Tn Intel
i82596 DX/CA 32-bit
Local Area Network Coprocessor for Ethernet
.Pp
Each of the host's network addresses
is specified at boot time with an
.Dv SIOCSIFADDR
.Xr ioctl 2 .
The
.Nm
interface employs the address resolution protocol described in
.Xr arp 4
to dynamically map between Internet and
.Tn Ethernet
addresses on the local network.
.Pp
The i82596 comes basically in two different flavors:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width i82596DXxxx
.It i82596DX
Systems with an ASP or WAX Main Bus Adapter (MBA), e.g. 720, 735 etc.
These types of systems generally have only AUI or BNC and AUI connectors at
the back. On the models with both you usually have to switch a big
jumper-block on the mainboard to choose which one to activate.
.It i82596CA
Systems with LASI MBA, e.g. 712/*, 715/100 have the i82596CA 
integrated on the LASI macrochip. They usually have TP and AUI 
connectors and autodetect to which one the network is connected to.
.El
.Pp
By default, the system will select the media type automatically, but the
.Xr ifconfig 8
command can be used to force the media selection.
The media types are shown below:
.Bl -tag -width xxxxxxxxxxxxxx -offset indent
.It media autoselect
Attempt to autoselect the media type (default)
.It media 10base5
Use the AUI connector
.It media 10baseT
Use the twisted pair connector
.It media 10base2
Use the BNC connector
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr arp 4 ,
.Xr ifmedia 4 ,
.Xr inet 4 ,
.Xr intro 4 ,
.Xr io 4
.Rs
"82596DX AND 82596SX High-Performance 32-bit Local Area Network Coprocessor"
.br
"82596CA High-Performance 32-bit Local Area Network Coprocessor"
.br
Intel

