.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001 Paul Weissmann
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"      This product includes software developed by Jonathan Stone.
.\" 3. The name of the author may not be used to endorse or promote products
.\"    derived from this software without specific prior written permission
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"
.Dd March 11, 2001
.Dt INTRO 4 hppa
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm intro
.Nd introduction to special files and hardware support
.Sh DESCRIPTION
This section describes the special files, related driver functions,
and networking support
available in the system.
In this part of the manual, the
.Tn SYNOPSIS
section of
each configurable device gives a sample specification
for use in constructing a system description for the
.Xr config 8
program.
The
.Tn DIAGNOSTICS
section lists messages which may appear on the console
and/or in the system error log
.Pa /var/log/messages
due to errors in device operation;
see
.Xr syslogd 8
for more information.
.Pp
This section contains both devices
which may be configured into the system
and network related information.
The networking support is introduced in
.Xr netintro 4 .
.Sh DEVICE SUPPORT
This section describes the hardware supported on the HP-PARISC(HPPA)
platform.
Software support for these devices comes in two forms.  A hardware
device may be supported with a character or block
.Em device driver ,
or it may be used within the networking subsystem and have a
.Em network interface driver .
Character and block
devices are accessed through files in the file
system of a special type; see
.Xr mknod 8 .
Network interfaces are indirectly accessed through the interprocess
communication facilities provided by the system; see
.Xr socket 2 .
.Pp
A hardware device is identified to the system at configuration time
and the appropriate device or network interface driver is then compiled
into the system.  When the resultant system is booted, the
autoconfiguration facilities in the system probe for the device
and, if found, enable the software support for it.
If a device does not respond at autoconfiguration
time it is not accessible at any time afterwards.
To enable a device which did not autoconfigure,
the system must be rebooted.
.Pp
The autoconfiguration system is described in
.Xr autoconf 4 .
A list of the supported devices is given below.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr autoconf 4 ,
.Xr config 8
.Sh SUPPORTED SYSTEMS
The following HPPA system architectures and models are supported:
(bold means "known to be working")
.Tn HP9000/700
workstations based on HPPA-processors:
.in +\n(dIu
.TS
tab (:) ;
l l l
_ _ _
l l l .
Model:Clock:CPU
705:35MHz:PA7000
710:50MHz:PA7000
720:50MHz:PA7000
730:66MHz:PA7100
750:66MHz:PA7000
715:33/50/75MHz:PA7100
725:50/75MHz:PA7100
735:100MHz:PA7100
755:100MHz:PA7100
735:125MHz:PA7150
755:125MHz:PA7150
712:60/80/100MHz:PA7100LC 
715:64/80/100/100XC:PA7100LC
725:64/100MHz:PA7100LC
J200:100MHz:PA7200
J210:120MHz:PA7200
C100:100MHz:PA7200
C110:120MHz:PA7200
B132L:132MHz:PA7300LC
B160L:160MHz:PA7300LC
B180L:180MHz:PA7300LC
C132L:132MHz:PA7300LC
C160L:160MHz:PA7300LC
C180L:180MHz:PA7300LC
.TE  
.in -\n(dIu
.Pp
OpenBSD/hppa should run on systems similar to these, as long as they're based 
on the following:
.Pp
.Bl -bullet -compact
.It
HP-PARISC1.1 processors, dubbed PA7000, PA7100, PA7150, PA7100LC, PA7200, PA 7250, PA7300LC;
.It
Viper memory controllers;
.It
LASI, ASP and WAX bus/IO controllers -> GSC-bus based machines
.It
NCR 53C700, 53C710 and 53C720 SCSI IO-processors -> can be SE or (FW)Differential SCSI
.It
Venom, (H)CRX-8 and (H)CRX-24 video controllers
.It
i82350(Mongoose) EISA-bus controller w/ attached EISA-bus and devices
.It
HIL or PS/2-style keyboard and mouse
.El
.Pp
.Sh LIST OF DEVICES
The devices listed below are supported in this incarnation of
the system.  Devices are indicated by their functional interface.
Not all supported devices are listed.
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width le/lebuffer
.It asp
The ASP bus/IO controller; found in most of the older machines which
don't have LASI or WAX.
Includes GSC-bus controller, to which most of the devices are attached. Most of IO is still on external chips though.
.It com
The RS-232 ports.
.It cpu
The Central Processor itself, makes sure the machine does something useful.
.It hil
Human Interface Loop, sporting several input devices,
e.g. keyboards, mice, tablets and such.
.It ie
i82C5[89]6 LAN-processor. Found in every s700, either included in MBA or on 
external chip on mainboard.
.It lasi
LSI?, found in s712. Integrates most of the bus and IO functions into one chip.
.It leds
All s700 except s712  have at least 9 leds somewhere at the front which
will give you info about the systems status, e.g. NET IO, SCSI IO ...
.It lpt
The Centronics printer port.
.It mongoose
The
.Xr eisa 4
bus controller on most of the s700 machines.
.It pdc
The PROM interface, allows to call the routines in the machine's
PROM for things like intial console output and such.
.It siop
mtc
.It sti
The system graphics driver.
.It wax
The other reincarnation of
.Xr lasi 4
used for cheap
.Tn ASIC
implementations for add-on devices.
.El
.Sh HISTORY
The
hppa
.Nm
first appeared with
.Ox 3.1 .
