.\"	$OpenBSD: lpt.4,v 1.1 1999/04/18 20:16:02 mickey Exp $
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1999 Michael Shalayeff
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by Michael Shalayeff.
.\" 4. The name of the author may not be used to endorse or promote products
.\"    derived from this software without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd April 14, 1999
.Dt LPT 4
.Os OpenBSD
.Sh NAME
.Nm lpt
.Nd Printer port controller
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Cd "lpt0 at gsc? irq 7"
.Pp
.Cd "lpt0 at isa? port" \&"IO_LPT1\&" irq 7
.Pp
.Sh INTRODUCTION
Parallel port controller provides Centronics port for unidirectional
data communications
.Tn ( IEEE 1284 ) .
.Pp
The
.Nm
ports on
.Xr isa 4
comes in whole rainbow of flaivours.
The parallel port controller on
.Xr gsc 4
(core) bus comes in several chip implementations:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -compact -width WD16C552
.It WD16C552
contains both serial ports and a parallel port;
.It LASI
incorporated into the
.Xr lasi 4
megacell hyperchip.
.El
.Pp
In either case the bus interface is the same and compatible with
PC parallel ports.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr gsc 4 ,
.Xr isa 4 ,
.Xr lasi 4 ,
.Xr com 4
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
driver was originally developped by William F. Jolitz, TeleMuse.
The implementation for hppa port is using MI implementation of this
driver and first appeared in
.Ox 2.4 .
