@c $KTH: ack.texi,v 1.21 2005/05/10 19:34:57 lha Exp $

@node  Acknowledgments, , Migration, Top
@comment  node-name,  next,  previous,  up
@appendix Acknowledgments

Eric Young wrote ``libdes''. Heimdal used to use libdes, without it
kth-krb would never have existed. 

All functions in libdes have been re-implemented or used available
public domain code. The core AES function where written by Vincent
Rijmen, Antoon Bosselaers and Paulo Barreto.  The core DES SBOX
transformation was written by Richard Outerbridge.

The University of California at Berkeley initially wrote @code{telnet},
and @code{telnetd}.  The authentication and encryption code of
@code{telnet} and @code{telnetd} was added by David Borman (then of Cray
Research, Inc).  The encryption code was removed when this was exported
and then added back by Juha Eskelinen, @email{esc@@magic.fi}.

The @code{popper} was also a Berkeley program initially.

Some of the functions in @file{libroken} also come from Berkeley by way
of NetBSD/FreeBSD.

@code{editline} was written by Simmule Turner and Rich Salz. Heimdal
contains a modifed copy.

The @code{getifaddrs} implementation for Linux was written by Hideaki
YOSHIFUJI for the Usagi project.

Bugfixes, documentation, encouragement, and code has been contributed by:
@table @asis
@item Derrick J Brashear
@email{shadow@@dementia.org}
@item Ken Hornstein
@email{kenh@@cmf.nrl.navy.mil}
@item Johan Ihrén
@email{johani@@pdc.kth.se}
@item Love Hörnquist Åstrand
@email{lha@@kth.se}
@item Magnus Ahltorp
@email{map@@stacken.kth.se}
@item Mark Eichin
@email{eichin@@cygnus.com}
@item Marc Horowitz
@email{marc@@cygnus.com}
@item Luke Howard
@email{lukeh@@PADL.COM}
@item Brandon S. Allbery KF8NH
@email{allbery@@kf8nh.apk.net}
@item Jun-ichiro itojun Hagino
@email{itojun@@kame.net}
@item Daniel Kouril
@email{kouril@@informatics.muni.cz}
@item Åke Sandgren 
@email{ake@@cs.umu.se}
@item Michal Vocu
@email{michal@@karlin.mff.cuni.cz}
@item Miroslav Ruda
@email{ruda@@ics.muni.cz}
@item Brian A May
@email{bmay@@snoopy.apana.org.au}
@item Chaskiel M Grundman
@email{cg2v@@andrew.cmu.edu}
@item Richard Nyberg
@email{rnyberg@@it.su.se}
@item Frank van der Linden
@email{fvdl@@netbsd.org}
@item Cizzi Storm
@email{cizzi@@it.su.se}
@item Petr Holub
@email{Holub.Petr@@atlas.cz}
@item Mario Strasser
@email{mario.strasser@@zhwin.ch}
@item David Love
@email{fx@@gnu.org}
@item and we hope that those not mentioned here will forgive us.
@end table

All bugs were introduced by ourselves.
