.\"	$OpenBSD: le.4,v 1.13 2008/08/18 23:19:18 miod Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2000 Brandon Creighton
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT,
.\" INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
.\" (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
.\" SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
.\" STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING
.\" IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
.\" POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: August 18 2008 $
.Dt LE 4 vax
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm le
.Nd AMD LANCE Ethernet device
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Cd "le* at vsbus? csr 0x200e0000    " Pq "VAXstation onboard"
.Cd "le* at ibus?                    " Pq "MicroVAX ibus"
.Cd "le* at fwio?                    " Pq "VAXstation 35x0 and 38x0"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
interface provides access to the 10 Mb/s
.Tn Ethernet
network through the
.Tn AMD
Am7990 Local Area Network Controller for Ethernet
.Pq Tn LANCE
chipset.
.Pp
Different machine configurations have varying types of connectors.
The following types can be found:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width 10n -compact -offset indent
.It AUI/DIX
15-pin connector (10base5)
.It BNC
RG58 connector (10base2)
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr arp 4 ,
.Xr ifmedia 4 ,
.Xr intro 4 ,
.Xr netintro 4 ,
.Xr hostname.if 5 ,
.Xr ifconfig 8
