.\"	$OpenBSD: vsaudio.4,v 1.2 2011/09/03 21:49:53 jmc Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2011 Miodrag Vallat.
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: September 3 2011 $
.Dt VSAUDIO 4 vax
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm vsaudio
.Nd VAXstation audio device
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Cd "vsaudio0 at vsbus0 csr 0x200d0000" Pq "VAXstation 4000/60 and VLC"
.Cd "vsaudio0 at vsbus0 csr 0x26800000" Pq "VAXstation 4000/90"
.Cd "audio* at vsaudio?"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
driver supports the onboard audio device found on VAXstation 4000 systems,
based upon the
.Tn AMD
AM79C30A
Digital Subscriber Controller
chip.
.Pp
On all VAXstation systems but the VLC, audio output is routed either to the
internal speaker, or to the RJ-11 phone jack on the front of the machine.
The output device is selected with the phone/speaker switch next to the
phone jack; there is no way for software to select the output device.
.Pp
The VAXstation VLC has no internal speaker and can only output to the RJ-11
phone jack connector on the right side of the machine.
.Pp
There is no input source connected to the
.Nm
device, therefore audio recording is not supported.
.Pp
The
.Nm
driver only supports 8-bit, 8KHz monaural mu-law output.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr audio 4 ,
.Xr intro 4 ,
.Xr vsbus 4
