=pod

=head1 NAME

Locale::Codes::Currency - standard codes for currency identification

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use Locale::Codes::Currency;

    $curr = code2currency('usd');     # $curr gets 'US Dollar'
    $code = currency2code('Euro');    # $code gets 'eur'

    @codes   = all_currency_codes();
    @names   = all_currency_names();


=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<Locale::Codes::Currency> module provides access to standard codes used
for identifying currencies and funds, such as those defined in ISO 4217.

Most of the routines take an optional additional argument which
specifies the code set to use. If not specified, the default ISO
4217 three-letter codes will be used.

=head1 SUPPORTED CODE SETS

There are several different code sets you can use for identifying
currencies. A code set may be specified using either a name, or a
constant that is automatically exported by this module.

For example, the two are equivalent:

   $curr = code2currency('usd','alpha');
   $curr = code2currency('usd',LOCALE_CURR_ALPHA);

The codesets currently supported are:

=over 4

=item B<alpha, LOCALE_CURR_ALPHA>

This is a set of three-letter (uppercase) codes from ISO 4217 such
as EUR for Euro.

Two of the codes specified by the standard (XTS which is reserved
for testing purposes and XXX which is for transactions where no
currency is involved) are omitted.

This is the default code set.

=item B<num, LOCALE_CURR_NUMERIC>

This is the set of three-digit numeric codes from ISO 4217.

=back

=head1 ROUTINES

=over 4

=item B<code2currency ( CODE [,CODESET] )>

=item B<currency2code ( NAME [,CODESET] )>

=item B<currency_code2code ( CODE ,CODESET ,CODESET2 )>

=item B<all_currency_codes ( [CODESET] )>

=item B<all_currency_names ( [CODESET] )>

=item B<Locale::Codes::Currency::rename_currency  ( CODE ,NEW_NAME [,CODESET] )>

=item B<Locale::Codes::Currency::add_currency  ( CODE ,NAME [,CODESET] )>

=item B<Locale::Codes::Currency::delete_currency  ( CODE [,CODESET] )>

=item B<Locale::Codes::Currency::add_currency_alias  ( NAME ,NEW_NAME )>

=item B<Locale::Codes::Currency::delete_currency_alias  ( NAME )>

=item B<Locale::Codes::Currency::rename_currency_code  ( CODE ,NEW_CODE [,CODESET] )>

=item B<Locale::Codes::Currency::add_currency_code_alias  ( CODE ,NEW_CODE [,CODESET] )>

=item B<Locale::Codes::Currency::delete_currency_code_alias  ( CODE [,CODESET] )>

These routines are all documented in the Locale::Codes::API man page.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over 4

=item B<Locale::Codes>

The Locale-Codes distribution.

=item B<Locale::Codes::API>

The list of functions supported by this module.

=item B<http://www.iso.org/iso/support/currency_codes_list-1.htm>

The ISO 4217 data.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

See Locale::Codes for full author history.

Currently maintained by Sullivan Beck (sbeck@cpan.org).

=head1 COPYRIGHT

   Copyright (c) 1997-2001 Canon Research Centre Europe (CRE).
   Copyright (c) 2001      Michael Hennecke
   Copyright (c) 2001-2010 Neil Bowers
   Copyright (c) 2010-2012 Sullivan Beck

This module is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut
