=pod

=head1 NAME

Locale::Codes::Language - standard codes for language identification

=head1 SYNOPSIS

   use Locale::Codes::Language;

   $lang = code2language('en');        # $lang gets 'English'
   $code = language2code('French');    # $code gets 'fr'

   @codes   = all_language_codes();
   @names   = all_language_names();

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module provides access to standard codes used
for identifying languages, such as those as defined in ISO 639.

Most of the routines take an optional additional argument which
specifies the code set to use. If not specified, the default ISO
639 two-letter codes will be used.

=head1 SUPPORTED CODE SETS

There are several different code sets you can use for identifying
languages. A code set may be specified using either a name, or a
constant that is automatically exported by this module.

For example, the two are equivalent:

   $lang = code2language('en','alpha-2');
   $lang = code2language('en',LOCALE_LANG_ALPHA_2);

The codesets currently supported are:

=over 4

=item B<alpha-2, LOCALE_LANG_ALPHA_2>

This is the set of two-letter (lowercase) codes from ISO 639-1, such
as 'he' for Hebrew.  It also includes additions to this set included
in the IANA language registry.

This is the default code set.

=item B<alpha-3, LOCALE_LANG_ALPHA_3>

This is the set of three-letter (lowercase) bibliographic codes from
ISO 639-2 and 639-5, such as 'heb' for Hebrew.  It also includes
additions to this set included in the IANA language registry.

=item B<term, LOCALE_LANG_TERM>

This is the set of three-letter (lowercase) terminologic codes from
ISO 639.

=back

=head1 ROUTINES

=over 4

=item B<code2language(CODE [,CODESET] [,'retired'])>

=item B<language2code(NAME [,CODESET] [,'retired'])>

=item B<language_code2code(CODE ,CODESET ,CODESET2)>

=item B<all_language_codes([CODESET] [,'retired'])>

=item B<all_language_names([CODESET] [,'retired'])>

=item B<Locale::Codes::Language::rename_language(CODE ,NEW_NAME [,CODESET])>

=item B<Locale::Codes::Language::add_language(CODE ,NAME [,CODESET])>

=item B<Locale::Codes::Language::delete_language(CODE [,CODESET])>

=item B<Locale::Codes::Language::add_language_alias(NAME ,NEW_NAME)>

=item B<Locale::Codes::Language::delete_language_alias(NAME)>

=item B<Locale::Codes::Language::rename_language_code(CODE ,NEW_CODE [,CODESET])>

=item B<Locale::Codes::Language::add_language_code_alias(CODE ,NEW_CODE [,CODESET])>

=item B<Locale::Codes::Language::delete_language_code_alias(CODE [,CODESET])>

These routines are all documented in the L<Locale::Codes::API> man page.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over 4

=item L<Locale::Codes>

The Locale-Codes distribution.

=item L<Locale::Codes::API>

The list of functions supported by this module.

=item L<http://www.loc.gov/standards/iso639-2/>

Source of the ISO 639-2 codes.

=item L<http://www.loc.gov/standards/iso639-5/>

Source of the ISO 639-5 codes.

=item L<http://www.iana.org/assignments/language-subtag-registry>

The IANA language subtag registry.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

See Locale::Codes for full author history.

Currently maintained by Sullivan Beck (sbeck@cpan.org).

=head1 COPYRIGHT

   Copyright (c) 1997-2001 Canon Research Centre Europe (CRE).
   Copyright (c) 2001-2010 Neil Bowers
   Copyright (c) 2010-2015 Sullivan Beck

This module is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut
