=pod

=head1 NAME

Locale::Codes::LangVar - standard codes for language variation identification

=head1 SYNOPSIS

   use Locale::Codes::LangVar;

   $lvar = code2langvar('acm');                 # $lvar gets 'Mesopotamian Arabic'
   $code = langvar2code('Mesopotamian Arabic'); # $code gets 'acm'

   @codes   = all_langvar_codes();
   @names   = all_langvar_names();

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<Locale::Codes::LangVar> module provides access to standard codes
used for identifying language variations, such as those as defined in
the IANA language registry.

Most of the routines take an optional additional argument which
specifies the code set to use. If not specified, the default IANA
language registry codes will be used.

=head1 SUPPORTED CODE SETS

There are several different code sets you can use for identifying
language variations. A code set may be specified using either a name, or a
constant that is automatically exported by this module.

For example, the two are equivalent:

   $lvar = code2langvar('arevela','alpha');
   $lvar = code2langvar('arevela',LOCALE_LANGVAR_ALPHA);

The codesets currently supported are:

=over 4

=item B<alpha>

This is the set of alphanumeric codes from the IANA
language registry, such as 'arevela' for Eastern Armenian.

This code set is identified with the symbol C<LOCALE_LANGVAR_ALPHA>.

This is the default code set.

=back

=head1 ROUTINES

=over 4

=item B<code2langvar ( CODE [,CODESET] )>

=item B<langvar2code ( NAME [,CODESET] )>

=item B<langvar_code2code ( CODE ,CODESET ,CODESET2 )>

=item B<all_langvar_codes ( [CODESET] )>

=item B<all_langvar_names ( [CODESET] )>

=item B<Locale::Codes::LangVar::rename_langvar  ( CODE ,NEW_NAME [,CODESET] )>

=item B<Locale::Codes::LangVar::add_langvar  ( CODE ,NAME [,CODESET] )>

=item B<Locale::Codes::LangVar::delete_langvar  ( CODE [,CODESET] )>

=item B<Locale::Codes::LangVar::add_langvar_alias  ( NAME ,NEW_NAME )>

=item B<Locale::Codes::LangVar::delete_langvar_alias  ( NAME )>

=item B<Locale::Codes::LangVar::rename_langvar_code  ( CODE ,NEW_CODE [,CODESET] )>

=item B<Locale::Codes::LangVar::add_langvar_code_alias  ( CODE ,NEW_CODE [,CODESET] )>

=item B<Locale::Codes::LangVar::delete_langvar_code_alias  ( CODE [,CODESET] )>

These routines are all documented in the Locale::Codes::API man page.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over 4

=item B<Locale::Codes>

The Locale-Codes distribution.

=item B<Locale::Codes::API>

The list of functions supported by this module.

=item B<http://www.iana.org/assignments/language-subtag-registry>

The IANA language subtag registry.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

See Locale::Codes for full author history.

Currently maintained by Sullivan Beck (sbeck@cpan.org).

=head1 COPYRIGHT

   Copyright (c) 2011-2014 Sullivan Beck

This module is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut
