=pod

=head1 NAME

Locale::Codes::Script - standard codes for script identification

=head1 SYNOPSIS

   use Locale::Codes::Script;

   $script  = code2script('phnx');                     # 'Phoenician'
   $code    = script2code('Phoenician');               # 'Phnx'
   $code    = script2code('Phoenician',
                          LOCALE_CODE_NUMERIC);        # 115

   @codes   = all_script_codes();
   @scripts = all_script_names();

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module provides access to standards codes used
for identifying scripts, such as those defined in ISO 15924.

Most of the routines take an optional additional argument which
specifies the code set to use. If not specified, the default ISO
15924 four-letter codes will be used.

=head1 SUPPORTED CODE SETS

There are several different code sets you can use for identifying
scripts. A code set may be specified using either a name, or a
constant that is automatically exported by this module.

For example, the two are equivalent:

   $script = code2script('phnx','alpha');
   $script = code2script('phnx',LOCALE_SCRIPT_ALPHA);

The codesets currently supported are:

=over 4

=item B<alpha, LOCALE_SCRIPT_ALPHA>

This is a set of four-letter (capitalized) codes from ISO 15924
such as 'Phnx' for Phoenician.  It also includes additions to this
set included in the IANA language registry.

The Zxxx, Zyyy, and Zzzz codes are not used.

This is the default code set.

=item B<num, LOCALE_SCRIPT_NUMERIC>

This is a set of three-digit numeric codes from ISO 15924 such as 115
for Phoenician.

=back

=head1 ROUTINES

=over 4

=item B<code2script(CODE [,CODESET] [,'retired'])>

=item B<script2code(NAME [,CODESET] [,'retired'])>

=item B<script_code2code(CODE ,CODESET ,CODESET2)>

=item B<all_script_codes([CODESET] [,'retired'])>

=item B<all_script_names([CODESET] [,'retired'])>

=item B<Locale::Codes::Script::rename_script(CODE ,NEW_NAME [,CODESET])>

=item B<Locale::Codes::Script::add_script(CODE ,NAME [,CODESET])>

=item B<Locale::Codes::Script::delete_script(CODE [,CODESET])>

=item B<Locale::Codes::Script::add_script_alias(NAME ,NEW_NAME)>

=item B<Locale::Codes::Script::delete_script_alias(NAME)>

=item B<Locale::Codes::Script::rename_script_code(CODE ,NEW_CODE [,CODESET])>

=item B<Locale::Codes::Script::add_script_code_alias(CODE ,NEW_CODE [,CODESET])>

=item B<Locale::Codes::Script::delete_script_code_alias(CODE [,CODESET])>

These routines are all documented in the L<Locale::Codes::API> man page.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over 4

=item L<Locale::Codes>

The Locale-Codes distribution.

=item L<Locale::Codes::API>

The list of functions supported by this module.

=item L<http://www.unicode.org/iso15924/>

Home page for ISO 15924.

=item L<http://www.iana.org/assignments/language-subtag-registry>

The IANA language subtag registry.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

See Locale::Codes for full author history.

Currently maintained by Sullivan Beck (sbeck@cpan.org).

=head1 COPYRIGHT

   Copyright (c) 1997-2001 Canon Research Centre Europe (CRE).
   Copyright (c) 2001-2010 Neil Bowers
   Copyright (c) 2010-2015 Sullivan Beck

This module is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut
