.\" $OpenBSD: tls_config_set_protocols.3,v 1.3 2017/01/28 00:59:36 schwarze Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2014 Ted Unangst <tedu@openbsd.org>
.\" Copyright (c) 2015, 2016 Joel Sing <jsing@openbsd.org>
.\" Copyright (c) 2015 Bob Beck <beck@openbsd.org>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: January 28 2017 $
.Dt TLS_CONFIG_SET_PROTOCOLS 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm tls_config_set_protocols ,
.Nm tls_config_parse_protocols ,
.Nm tls_config_set_alpn ,
.Nm tls_config_set_ciphers ,
.Nm tls_config_set_dheparams ,
.Nm tls_config_set_ecdhecurve ,
.Nm tls_config_prefer_ciphers_client ,
.Nm tls_config_prefer_ciphers_server
.Nd TLS protocol and cipher selection
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In tls.h
.Ft int
.Fo tls_config_set_protocols
.Fa "struct tls_config *config"
.Fa "uint32_t protocols"
.Fc
.Ft int
.Fo tls_config_parse_protocols
.Fa "uint32_t *protocols"
.Fa "const char *protostr"
.Fc
.Ft int
.Fo tls_config_set_alpn
.Fa "struct tls_config *config"
.Fa "const char *alpn"
.Fc
.Ft int
.Fo tls_config_set_ciphers
.Fa "struct tls_config *config"
.Fa "const char *ciphers"
.Fc
.Ft int
.Fo tls_config_set_dheparams
.Fa "struct tls_config *config"
.Fa "const char *params"
.Fc
.Ft int
.Fo tls_config_set_ecdhecurve
.Fa "struct tls_config *config"
.Fa "const char *name"
.Fc
.Ft void
.Fn tls_config_prefer_ciphers_client "struct tls_config *config"
.Ft void
.Fn tls_config_prefer_ciphers_server "struct tls_config *config"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
These functions modify a configuration by setting parameters.
The configuration options apply to both clients and servers, unless noted
otherwise.
.Pp
.Fn tls_config_set_protocols
specifies which versions of the TLS protocol may be used.
Possible values are the bitwise OR of:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width "TLS_PROTOCOL_TLSv1_2" -offset indent -compact
.It Dv TLS_PROTOCOL_TLSv1_0
.It Dv TLS_PROTOCOL_TLSv1_1
.It Dv TLS_PROTOCOL_TLSv1_2
.El
.Pp
Additionally, the values
.Dv TLS_PROTOCOL_TLSv1
(TLSv1.0, TLSv1.1 and TLSv1.2),
.Dv TLS_PROTOCOLS_ALL
(all supported protocols) and
.Dv TLS_PROTOCOLS_DEFAULT
(TLSv1.2 only) may be used.
.Pp
The
.Fn tls_config_parse_protocols
utility function parses a protocol string and returns the corresponding
value via the
.Ar protocols
argument.
This value can then be passed to the
.Fn tls_config_set_protocols
function.
The protocol string is a comma or colon separated list of keywords.
Valid keywords are tlsv1.0, tlsv1.1, tlsv1.2, all (all supported protocols),
default (an alias for secure), legacy (an alias for all) and secure (currently
TLSv1.2 only).
If a value has a negative prefix (in the form of a leading exclamation mark)
then it is removed from the list of available protocols, rather than being
added to it.
.Pp
.Fn tls_config_set_alpn
sets the ALPN protocols that are supported.
The alpn string is a comma separated list of protocols, in order of preference.
.Pp
.Fn tls_config_set_ciphers
sets the list of ciphers that may be used.
Lists of ciphers are specified by name, and the
permitted names are:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width "insecure" -offset indent -compact
.It Dv "secure" (or alias "default")
.It Dv "compat"
.It Dv "legacy"
.It Dv "insecure" (or alias "all")
.El
.Pp
Alternatively, libssl cipher strings can be specified.
See the CIPHERS section of
.Xr openssl 1
for further information.
.\" XXX tls_config_set_dheparams does what?
.\" XXX tls_config_set_ecdhecurve does what?
.Pp
.Fn tls_config_prefer_ciphers_client
prefers ciphers in the client's cipher list when selecting a cipher suite
(server only).
This is considered to be less secure than preferring the server's list.
.Pp
.Fn tls_config_prefer_ciphers_server
prefers ciphers in the server's cipher list when selecting a cipher suite
(server only).
This is considered to be more secure than preferring the client's list and is
the default.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
These functions return 0 on success or -1 on error.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr tls_config_ocsp_require_stapling 3 ,
.Xr tls_config_set_session_id 3 ,
.Xr tls_config_verify 3 ,
.Xr tls_init 3 ,
.Xr tls_load_file 3
.Sh HISTORY
.Fn tls_config_set_ciphers
appeared in
.Ox 5.6
and got its final name in
.Ox 5.7 .
.Pp
.Fn tls_config_set_protocols ,
.Fn tls_config_parse_protocols ,
.Fn tls_config_set_dheparams ,
and
.Fn tls_config_set_ecdhecurve
appeared in
.Ox 5.7 ,
.Fn tls_config_prefer_ciphers_client
and
.Fn tls_config_prefer_ciphers_server
in
.Ox 5.9 ,
and
.Fn tls_config_set_alpn
in
.Ox 6.1 .
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Joel Sing Aq Mt jsing@openbsd.org
with contributions from
.An Ted Unangst Aq Mt tedu@openbsd.org
.Pq Fn tls_config_set_ciphers
and
.An Reyk Floeter Aq Mt reyk@openbsd.org
.Pq Fn tls_config_set_ecdhecurve
