.\"	$OpenBSD: tsec.4,v 1.4 2009/01/28 21:10:03 kettenis Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008 Mark Kettenis <kettenis@openbsd.org>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: January 28 2009 $
.Dt TSEC 4 socppc
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm tsec
.Nd three-speed 10/100/Gigabit Ethernet device
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Cd "tsec0 at obio? addr 0x24000 ivec 32"
.Cd "tsec1 at obio? addr 0x25000 ivec 35"
.Cd "rgephy* at mii?"
.Cd "gentbi* at mii?"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
driver provides support for the three-speed Ethernet controller (TSEC)
found on the Freescale MPC8349E processor family.
It uses an external PHY or an internal 10-bit interface.
.Pp
The
.Nm
driver supports several media types, which are selected via the
.Xr ifconfig 8
command.
The supported media types are:
.Bl -tag -width "media" -offset indent
.It media autoselect
Attempt to autoselect the media type (default)
.It media 1000baseT mediaopt full-duplex
Use 1000baseT on copper, full duplex
.It media 1000baseT Op mediaopt half-duplex
Use 1000baseT on copper, half duplex
.It media 1000baseSX mediaopt full-duplex
Use 1000baseSX on fiber, full duplex
.It media 1000baseSX Op mediaopt half-duplex
Use 1000baseSX on fiber, half duplex
.It media 100baseTX mediaopt full-duplex
Use 100baseTX, full duplex
.It media 100baseTX Op mediaopt half-duplex
Use 100baseTX, half duplex
.It media 10baseT mediaopt full-duplex
Use 10baseT, full duplex
.It media 10baseT Op mediaopt half-duplex
Use 10baseT, half duplex
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr arp 4 ,
.Xr gentbi 4 ,
.Xr ifmedia 4 ,
.Xr inet 4 ,
.Xr intro 4 ,
.Xr netintro 4 ,
.Xr rgephy 4 ,
.Xr hostname.if 5 ,
.Xr ifconfig 8
.Sh HISTORY
.Ox
support for
.Nm
first appeared in
.Ox 4.4 .
.Sh AUTHORS
The
.Nm
driver was written by
.An Mark Kettenis Aq kettenis@openbsd.org .
