.\"	$OpenBSD: hpibbus.4,v 1.1 2008/04/01 14:22:28 jmc Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1996, 1997 Jason R. Thorpe.  All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 1982, 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: April 1 2008 $
.Dt HPIBBUS 4 hp300
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm hpibbus
.Nd HP-IB bus interface
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Cd "hpibbus*	at nhpib?"
.Cd "hpibbus*	at fhpib?"
.Pp
.Cd "hd*	at hpibbus?                 " Pq "disks"
.Cd "ct*	at hpibbus?                 " Pq "cartridge tapes"
.Cd "mt*	at hpibbus?                 " Pq "9-track tapes"
.Cd "ppi0	at hpibbus? slave 5 punit 0 " Pq "plotter"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
HP-IB is essentially an IEEE 488 bus,
with an HP command set
.Po
CS/80 on
.Sq newer
devices, Amigo on before-the-early-1980s devices
.Pc
thrown on top.
Devices that respond to CS/80 (and probably Amigo, too)
are tagged with a 16-bit ID.
.Pp
HP-IB has a 2-level addressing scheme:
slave, the analog of a SCSI ID, and punit, the analog of a SCSI LUN.
.Pp
The CS/80 ID is unique to the slave, and is shared by all its punits.
Most devices only have one punit; multiple punits are often used for disk
drives that have an accompanying tape drive on the second punit,
or for dual floppy drives.
.Pp
In addition, not all HP-IB devices speak CS/80 or Amigo.
Examples of such devices are HP-IB plotters,
which simply take raw plotter commands over 488.
These devices do not have ID tags,
and often the host cannot even tell if such
a device is attached to the system.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr \&ct 4 ,
.Xr hd 4 ,
.Xr intro 4 ,
.Xr nhpib 4 ,
.Xr ppi 4
