amigaos4/amigaio.c	AmigaOS4 port
amigaos4/amigaio.h	AmigaOS4 port
amigaos4/amigaos.c	AmigaOS4 port
amigaos4/amigaos.h	AmigaOS4 port
amigaos4/config.sh	AmigaOS4 config
Artistic		The "Artistic License"
asan_ignore		Errors to skip under clang's Addresss Sanitizer
AUTHORS			Contact info for contributors
autodoc.pl		Creates pod/perlintern.pod and pod/perlapi.pod
av.c			Array value code
av.h			Array value header
caretx.c		C file to create $^X
cflags.SH		A script that emits C compilation flags per file
Changes			Describe how to peruse changes between releases
charclass_invlists.h	Compiled-in inversion lists
config_h.SH		Produces config.h
config.over		Site-specific overrides for Configure defaults
configpm		Produces lib/Config.pm
Configure		Portability tool
configure.com		Configure-equivalent for VMS
configure.gnu		Crude emulation of GNU configure
cop.h			Control operator header
Copying			The GNU General Public License
cpan/Archive-Tar/bin/ptar				the ptar utility
cpan/Archive-Tar/bin/ptardiff				the ptardiff utility
cpan/Archive-Tar/bin/ptargrep				the ptardiff utility
cpan/Archive-Tar/lib/Archive/Tar/Constant.pm		Archive::Tar
cpan/Archive-Tar/lib/Archive/Tar/File.pm		Archive::Tar
cpan/Archive-Tar/lib/Archive/Tar.pm			Archive::Tar
cpan/Archive-Tar/t/01_use.t				Archive::Tar tests
cpan/Archive-Tar/t/02_methods.t				Archive::Tar tests
cpan/Archive-Tar/t/03_file.t				Archive::Tar tests
cpan/Archive-Tar/t/04_resolved_issues.t			Archive::Tar tests
cpan/Archive-Tar/t/05_iter.t				Archive::Tar tests
cpan/Archive-Tar/t/06_error.t				Archive::Tar tests
cpan/Archive-Tar/t/08_ptargrep.t
cpan/Archive-Tar/t/90_symlink.t				Archive::Tar tests
cpan/Archive-Tar/t/99_pod.t				Archive::Tar tests
cpan/Archive-Tar/t/src/header/signed.tar		Archive::Tar tests
cpan/Archive-Tar/t/src/linktest/linktest_missing_dir.tar	Archive::Tar tests
cpan/Archive-Tar/t/src/linktest/linktest_with_dir.tar	Archive::Tar tests
cpan/Archive-Tar/t/src/long/b				Archive::Tar tests
cpan/Archive-Tar/t/src/long/bar.tar			Archive::Tar tests
cpan/Archive-Tar/t/src/long/foo.tbz			Archive::Tar tests
cpan/Archive-Tar/t/src/long/foo.tgz			Archive::Tar tests
cpan/Archive-Tar/t/src/short/b				Archive::Tar tests
cpan/Archive-Tar/t/src/short/bar.tar			Archive::Tar tests
cpan/Archive-Tar/t/src/short/foo.tbz			Archive::Tar tests
cpan/Archive-Tar/t/src/short/foo.tgz			Archive::Tar tests
cpan/autodie/lib/autodie/exception.pm		Exception class for autodie
cpan/autodie/lib/autodie/exception/system.pm	Exception class for autodying system()
cpan/autodie/lib/autodie/hints.pm	Hinting interface for autodie
cpan/autodie/lib/autodie.pm		Functions succeed or die with lexical scope
cpan/autodie/lib/autodie/Scope/Guard.pm
cpan/autodie/lib/autodie/Scope/GuardStack.pm
cpan/autodie/lib/autodie/skip.pm
cpan/autodie/lib/autodie/Util.pm
cpan/autodie/lib/Fatal.pm		Make errors in functions/builtins fatal
cpan/autodie/t/00-load.t		autodie - basic load
cpan/autodie/t/args.t
cpan/autodie/t/autodie_skippy.pm
cpan/autodie/t/autodie.t		autodie - Basic functionality
cpan/autodie/t/autodie_test_module.pm	autodie - test helper
cpan/autodie/t/backcompat.t		autodie - More Fatal backcompat
cpan/autodie/t/basic_exceptions.t	autodie - Basic exception tests
cpan/autodie/t/binmode.t		autodie - Binmode testing
cpan/autodie/t/blog_hints.t		autodie - Tests fro PJF's blog
cpan/autodie/t/caller.t			autodie - Caller diagnostics
cpan/autodie/t/chmod.t
cpan/autodie/t/chown.t
cpan/autodie/t/context_lexical.t	autodie - Context clobbering lexically
cpan/autodie/t/context.t		autodie - Context clobbering tests
cpan/autodie/t/core-trampoline-slurp.t
cpan/autodie/t/crickey.t		autodie - Like an Australian
cpan/autodie/t/dbmopen.t		autodie - dbm tests
cpan/autodie/t/eval_error.t
cpan/autodie/t/exception_class.t	autodie - Exception class subclasses
cpan/autodie/t/exceptions.t		autodie - 5.10 exception tests.
cpan/autodie/t/exec.t			autodie - exec tests.
cpan/autodie/t/Fatal.t			autodie - Fatal backcompatibility
cpan/autodie/t/filehandles.t		autodie - filehandle tests
cpan/autodie/t/fileno.t			autodie - fileno tests
cpan/autodie/t/flock.t			autodie - File locking tests
cpan/autodie/t/format-clobber.t		autodie - Don't clobber scalars
cpan/autodie/t/hints_insist.t		autodie - Test hints insistance
cpan/autodie/t/hints_pod_examples.t	autodie - Test hints POD examples
cpan/autodie/t/hints_provider_does.t	autodie - Test hints/does roles
cpan/autodie/t/hints_provider_easy_does_it.t	autodie - Test easy hints/does
cpan/autodie/t/hints_provider_isa.t	autodie - Test hints/inheritance
cpan/autodie/t/hints.t			autodie - Test hints interface
cpan/autodie/t/import-into.t
cpan/autodie/t/internal-backcompat.t	autodie - Back-compatibility tests
cpan/autodie/t/internal.t		autodie - internal interface tests
cpan/autodie/t/kill.t
cpan/autodie/t/lethal.t			autodie - lethal is the one true name
cpan/autodie/t/lib/autodie/test/au/exception.pm	autodie - Australian helper
cpan/autodie/t/lib/autodie/test/au.pm		autodie - Australian helper
cpan/autodie/t/lib/autodie/test/badname.pm	autodie - Bad exception class
cpan/autodie/t/lib/autodie/test/missing.pm	autodie - Missing exception class
cpan/autodie/t/lib/Caller_helper.pm		autodie - Caller helper
cpan/autodie/t/lib/Hints_pod_examples.pm	autodie - Hints/pod helper
cpan/autodie/t/lib/Hints_provider_does.pm	autodie - Hints/does helper
cpan/autodie/t/lib/Hints_provider_easy_does_it.pm	autodie - Hints/easy helper
cpan/autodie/t/lib/Hints_provider_isa.pm	autodie - Hints/inherit helper
cpan/autodie/t/lib/Hints_test.pm	autodie - Hints test helper
cpan/autodie/t/lib/lethal.pm		autodie - with a better name
cpan/autodie/t/lib/my/autodie.pm	autodie - blog_hints.t helper
cpan/autodie/t/lib/my/pragma.pm
cpan/autodie/t/lib/OtherTypes.pm	autodie - Format clobberer helper.
cpan/autodie/t/lib/pujHa/ghach/Dotlh.pm	autodie - With Klingon honour
cpan/autodie/t/lib/pujHa/ghach.pm	autodie - Like a Klingon
cpan/autodie/t/lib/Some/Module.pm	autodie - blog_hints.t helper
cpan/autodie/t/mkdir.t			autodie - filesystem tests
cpan/autodie/t/no_carp.t
cpan/autodie/t/open.t			autodie - Testing open
cpan/autodie/t/read.t
cpan/autodie/t/recv.t			autodie - send/recv tests
cpan/autodie/t/repeat.t			autodie - repeat autodie leak tests
cpan/autodie/t/rt-74246.t
cpan/autodie/t/scope_leak.t		autodie - file scope leak tests
cpan/autodie/t/skip.t
cpan/autodie/t/string-eval-basic.t	autodie - Basic string eval test
cpan/autodie/t/string-eval-leak.t	autodie - String eval leak test
cpan/autodie/t/sysopen.t		autodie - sysopen tests
cpan/autodie/t/touch_me
cpan/autodie/t/truncate.t		autodie - File truncation tests
cpan/autodie/t/unlink.t			autodie - Unlink system tests.
cpan/autodie/t/user-context.t		autodie - Context changes for usersubs
cpan/autodie/t/usersub.t		autodie - user subroutine tests
cpan/autodie/t/utf8_open.t
cpan/autodie/t/utime.t
cpan/autodie/t/version.t		autodie - versioning tests
cpan/autodie/t/version_tag.t
cpan/AutoLoader/lib/AutoLoader.pm	Autoloader base class
cpan/AutoLoader/lib/AutoSplit.pm	Split up autoload functions
cpan/AutoLoader/t/01AutoLoader.t	See if AutoLoader works
cpan/AutoLoader/t/02AutoSplit.t		See if AutoSplit works
cpan/B-Debug/Debug.pm	Compiler Debug backend
cpan/B-Debug/t/debug.t	See if B::Debug works
cpan/bignum/lib/bigint.pm		bigint
cpan/bignum/lib/bignum.pm		bignum
cpan/bignum/lib/bigrat.pm		bigrat
cpan/bignum/lib/Math/BigFloat/Trace.pm	bignum tracing
cpan/bignum/lib/Math/BigInt/Trace.pm	bignum tracing
cpan/bignum/t/big_e_pi.t		See if bignum exports e() and PI()
cpan/bignum/t/bigexp.t			See if bignum works
cpan/bignum/t/bigint.t			See if bigint works
cpan/bignum/t/bignum.t			See if bignum works
cpan/bignum/t/bigrat.t			See if bigrat works
cpan/bignum/t/bii_e_pi.t		See if bigint exports e() and PI()
cpan/bignum/t/biinfnan.t		See if bignum works
cpan/bignum/t/bir_e_pi.t		See if bigrat exports e() and PI()
cpan/bignum/t/bninfnan.t		See if bignum works
cpan/bignum/t/bn_lite.t			See if bignum with Math::BigInt::Lite works
cpan/bignum/t/brinfnan.t		See if bignum works
cpan/bignum/t/br_lite.t			See if bigrat with Math::BigInt::Lite works
cpan/bignum/t/in_effect.t		See if in_effect() works
cpan/bignum/t/infnan.inc		See if bignum with inf/NaN works
cpan/bignum/t/option_a.t		See if bignum a => X works
cpan/bignum/t/option_l.t		See if bignum l => X works
cpan/bignum/t/option_p.t		See if bignum p => X works
cpan/bignum/t/overrides.t		See if global overrides behave
cpan/bignum/t/ratopt_a.t		See if bigrat a => X works
cpan/bignum/t/scope_f.t			See if no bignum works
cpan/bignum/t/scope_i.t			See if no bigint works
cpan/bignum/t/scope_r.t			See if no bigrat works
cpan/Compress-Raw-Bzip2/bzip2-src/blocksort.c
cpan/Compress-Raw-Bzip2/bzip2-src/bzlib.c
cpan/Compress-Raw-Bzip2/bzip2-src/bzlib.h
cpan/Compress-Raw-Bzip2/bzip2-src/bzlib_private.h
cpan/Compress-Raw-Bzip2/bzip2-src/compress.c
cpan/Compress-Raw-Bzip2/bzip2-src/crctable.c
cpan/Compress-Raw-Bzip2/bzip2-src/decompress.c
cpan/Compress-Raw-Bzip2/bzip2-src/huffman.c
cpan/Compress-Raw-Bzip2/bzip2-src/LICENSE
cpan/Compress-Raw-Bzip2/bzip2-src/randtable.c
cpan/Compress-Raw-Bzip2/Bzip2.xs
cpan/Compress-Raw-Bzip2/fallback/constants.h
cpan/Compress-Raw-Bzip2/fallback/constants.xs
cpan/Compress-Raw-Bzip2/lib/Compress/Raw/Bzip2.pm
cpan/Compress-Raw-Bzip2/Makefile.PL
cpan/Compress-Raw-Bzip2/private/MakeUtil.pm
cpan/Compress-Raw-Bzip2/t/000prereq.t
cpan/Compress-Raw-Bzip2/t/01bzip2.t
cpan/Compress-Raw-Bzip2/t/09limitoutput.t
cpan/Compress-Raw-Bzip2/t/19nonpv.t
cpan/Compress-Raw-Bzip2/t/99pod.t
cpan/Compress-Raw-Bzip2/t/compress/CompTestUtils.pm
cpan/Compress-Raw-Bzip2/typemap
cpan/Compress-Raw-Zlib/config.in		Compress::Raw::Zlib
cpan/Compress-Raw-Zlib/fallback/constants.h	Compress::Raw::Zlib
cpan/Compress-Raw-Zlib/fallback/constants.xs	Compress::Raw::Zlib
cpan/Compress-Raw-Zlib/lib/Compress/Raw/Zlib.pm	Compress::Raw::Zlib
cpan/Compress-Raw-Zlib/Makefile.PL		Compress::Raw::Zlib
cpan/Compress-Raw-Zlib/private/MakeUtil.pm	Compress::Raw::Zlib
cpan/Compress-Raw-Zlib/t/01version.t		Compress::Raw::Zlib
cpan/Compress-Raw-Zlib/t/02zlib.t		Compress::Raw::Zlib
cpan/Compress-Raw-Zlib/t/07bufsize.t		Compress::Raw::Zlib
cpan/Compress-Raw-Zlib/t/09limitoutput.t	Compress::Raw::Zlib
cpan/Compress-Raw-Zlib/t/18lvalue.t		Compress::Raw::Zlib
cpan/Compress-Raw-Zlib/t/19nonpv.t
cpan/Compress-Raw-Zlib/t/compress/CompTestUtils.pm
cpan/Compress-Raw-Zlib/typemap			Compress::Raw::Zlib
cpan/Compress-Raw-Zlib/zlib-src/adler32.c	Compress::Raw::Zlib
cpan/Compress-Raw-Zlib/zlib-src/compress.c	Compress::Raw::Zlib
cpan/Compress-Raw-Zlib/zlib-src/crc32.c		Compress::Raw::Zlib
cpan/Compress-Raw-Zlib/zlib-src/crc32.h		Compress::Raw::Zlib
cpan/Compress-Raw-Zlib/zlib-src/deflate.c	Compress::Raw::Zlib
cpan/Compress-Raw-Zlib/zlib-src/deflate.h	Compress::Raw::Zlib
cpan/Compress-Raw-Zlib/zlib-src/infback.c	Compress::Raw::Zlib
cpan/Compress-Raw-Zlib/zlib-src/inffast.c	Compress::Raw::Zlib
cpan/Compress-Raw-Zlib/zlib-src/inffast.h	Compress::Raw::Zlib
cpan/Compress-Raw-Zlib/zlib-src/inffixed.h	Compress::Raw::Zlib
cpan/Compress-Raw-Zlib/zlib-src/inflate.c	Compress::Raw::Zlib
cpan/Compress-Raw-Zlib/zlib-src/inflate.h	Compress::Raw::Zlib
cpan/Compress-Raw-Zlib/zlib-src/inftrees.c	Compress::Raw::Zlib
cpan/Compress-Raw-Zlib/zlib-src/inftrees.h	Compress::Raw::Zlib
cpan/Compress-Raw-Zlib/zlib-src/trees.c		Compress::Raw::Zlib
cpan/Compress-Raw-Zlib/zlib-src/trees.h		Compress::Raw::Zlib
cpan/Compress-Raw-Zlib/zlib-src/uncompr.c	Compress::Raw::Zlib
cpan/Compress-Raw-Zlib/zlib-src/zconf.h		Compress::Raw::Zlib
cpan/Compress-Raw-Zlib/zlib-src/zlib.h		Compress::Raw::Zlib
cpan/Compress-Raw-Zlib/zlib-src/zutil.c		Compress::Raw::Zlib
cpan/Compress-Raw-Zlib/zlib-src/zutil.h		Compress::Raw::Zlib
cpan/Compress-Raw-Zlib/Zlib.xs			Compress::Raw::Zlib
cpan/Config-Perl-V/t/10_base.t			Config::Perl::V
cpan/Config-Perl-V/t/20_plv56.t			Config::Perl::V
cpan/Config-Perl-V/t/21_plv58.t			Config::Perl::V
cpan/Config-Perl-V/t/22_plv510.t		Config::Perl::V
cpan/Config-Perl-V/t/23_plv512.t		Config::Perl::V
cpan/Config-Perl-V/t/24_plv514.t		Config::Perl::V
cpan/Config-Perl-V/t/25_plv5162.t		Config::Perl::V
cpan/Config-Perl-V/t/25_plv516.t		Config::Perl::V
cpan/Config-Perl-V/t/26_plv5182.t		Config::Perl::V
cpan/Config-Perl-V/t/26_plv518.t		Config::Perl::V
cpan/Config-Perl-V/t/27_plv5200.t		Config::Perl::V
cpan/Config-Perl-V/t/27_plv5202.t		Config::Perl::V
cpan/Config-Perl-V/t/28_plv52201w.t		Config::Perl::V
cpan/Config-Perl-V/t/28_plv5220.t		Config::Perl::V
cpan/Config-Perl-V/V.pm				Config::Perl::V
cpan/CPAN/lib/App/Cpan.pm		helper package for CPAN.pm
cpan/CPAN/lib/CPAN/API/HOWTO.pod	recipe book for programming with CPAN.pm
cpan/CPAN/lib/CPAN/Author.pm		helper package for CPAN.pm
cpan/CPAN/lib/CPAN/Bundle.pm		helper package for CPAN.pm
cpan/CPAN/lib/CPAN/CacheMgr.pm		helper package for CPAN.pm
cpan/CPAN/lib/CPAN/Complete.pm		helper package for CPAN.pm
cpan/CPAN/lib/CPAN/Debug.pm		helper package for CPAN.pm
cpan/CPAN/lib/CPAN/DeferredCode.pm	helper package for CPAN.pm
cpan/CPAN/lib/CPAN/Distribution.pm	helper package for CPAN.pm
cpan/CPAN/lib/CPAN/Distroprefs.pm	helper package for CPAN.pm
cpan/CPAN/lib/CPAN/Distrostatus.pm	helper package for CPAN.pm
cpan/CPAN/lib/CPAN/Exception/blocked_urllist.pm	helper package for CPAN.pm
cpan/CPAN/lib/CPAN/Exception/RecursiveDependency.pm	helper package for CPAN.pm
cpan/CPAN/lib/CPAN/Exception/yaml_not_installed.pm	helper package for CPAN.pm
cpan/CPAN/lib/CPAN/Exception/yaml_process_error.pm	helper package for CPAN.pm
cpan/CPAN/lib/CPAN/FirstTime.pm		Utility for creating CPAN config files
cpan/CPAN/lib/CPAN/FTP/netrc.pm		helper package for CPAN.pm
cpan/CPAN/lib/CPAN/FTP.pm			helper package for CPAN.pm
cpan/CPAN/lib/CPAN/HandleConfig.pm	helper package for CPAN.pm
cpan/CPAN/lib/CPAN/HTTP/Client.pm	helper package for CPAN.pm
cpan/CPAN/lib/CPAN/HTTP/Credentials.pm	helper package for CPAN.pm
cpan/CPAN/lib/CPAN/Index.pm		helper package for CPAN.pm
cpan/CPAN/lib/CPAN/InfoObj.pm		helper package for CPAN.pm
cpan/CPAN/lib/CPAN/Kwalify/distroprefs.dd		helper file for validating config files
cpan/CPAN/lib/CPAN/Kwalify/distroprefs.yml	helper file for validating config files
cpan/CPAN/lib/CPAN/Kwalify.pm		helper package for CPAN.pm
cpan/CPAN/lib/CPAN/LWP/UserAgent.pm	helper package for CPAN.pm
cpan/CPAN/lib/CPAN/Mirrors.pm		helper package for CPAN.pm
cpan/CPAN/lib/CPAN/Module.pm		helper package for CPAN.pm
cpan/CPAN/lib/CPAN/Nox.pm			Runs CPAN while avoiding compiled extensions
cpan/CPAN/lib/CPAN/Plugin.pm
cpan/CPAN/lib/CPAN/Plugin/Specfile.pm
cpan/CPAN/lib/CPAN.pm			Interface to Comprehensive Perl Archive Network
cpan/CPAN/lib/CPAN/Prompt.pm
cpan/CPAN/lib/CPAN/Queue.pm		queueing system for CPAN.pm
cpan/CPAN/lib/CPAN/Shell.pm
cpan/CPAN/lib/CPAN/Tarzip.pm		helper package for CPAN.pm
cpan/CPAN/lib/CPAN/URL.pm
cpan/CPAN/lib/CPAN/Version.pm		Simple math with different flavors of version strings
cpan/CPAN-Meta/lib/CPAN/Meta/Converter.pm
cpan/CPAN-Meta/lib/CPAN/Meta/Feature.pm
cpan/CPAN-Meta/lib/CPAN/Meta/History/Meta_1_0.pod
cpan/CPAN-Meta/lib/CPAN/Meta/History/Meta_1_1.pod
cpan/CPAN-Meta/lib/CPAN/Meta/History/Meta_1_2.pod
cpan/CPAN-Meta/lib/CPAN/Meta/History/Meta_1_3.pod
cpan/CPAN-Meta/lib/CPAN/Meta/History/Meta_1_4.pod
cpan/CPAN-Meta/lib/CPAN/Meta/History.pm
cpan/CPAN-Meta/lib/CPAN/Meta/Merge.pm
cpan/CPAN-Meta/lib/CPAN/Meta.pm
cpan/CPAN-Meta/lib/CPAN/Meta/Prereqs.pm
cpan/CPAN-Meta/lib/CPAN/Meta/Spec.pm
cpan/CPAN-Meta/lib/CPAN/Meta/Validator.pm
cpan/CPAN-Meta-Requirements/lib/CPAN/Meta/Requirements.pm
cpan/CPAN-Meta-Requirements/t/accepts.t
cpan/CPAN-Meta-Requirements/t/bad_version_hook.t
cpan/CPAN-Meta-Requirements/t/basic.t
cpan/CPAN-Meta-Requirements/t/finalize.t
cpan/CPAN-Meta-Requirements/t/from-hash.t
cpan/CPAN-Meta-Requirements/t/merge.t
cpan/CPAN-Meta-Requirements/t/strings.t
cpan/CPAN-Meta/t/converter-bad.t
cpan/CPAN-Meta/t/converter-fail.t
cpan/CPAN-Meta/t/converter-fragments.t
cpan/CPAN-Meta/t/converter.t
cpan/CPAN-Meta/t/data-fail/META-1_0.yml
cpan/CPAN-Meta/t/data-fail/META-1_1.yml
cpan/CPAN-Meta/t/data-fail/META-1_2.yml
cpan/CPAN-Meta/t/data-fail/META-1_3.yml
cpan/CPAN-Meta/t/data-fail/META-1_4.yml
cpan/CPAN-Meta/t/data-fail/META-2.json
cpan/CPAN-Meta/t/data-fixable/107650337-META.yml
cpan/CPAN-Meta/t/data-fixable/1598804075-META.yml
cpan/CPAN-Meta/t/data-fixable/1927486199-META.yml
cpan/CPAN-Meta/t/data-fixable/1985980974-META.yml
cpan/CPAN-Meta/t/data-fixable/2031017050-META.yml
cpan/CPAN-Meta/t/data-fixable/284247103-META.yml
cpan/CPAN-Meta/t/data-fixable/344981821-META.yml
cpan/CPAN-Meta/t/data-fixable/35478989-META.yml
cpan/CPAN-Meta/t/data-fixable/98042513-META.yml
cpan/CPAN-Meta/t/data-fixable/invalid-meta-spec-version.json
cpan/CPAN-Meta/t/data-fixable/invalid-meta-spec-version.yml
cpan/CPAN-Meta/t/data-fixable/META-1_2.yml
cpan/CPAN-Meta/t/data-fixable/META-1_3.yml
cpan/CPAN-Meta/t/data-fixable/META-1_4.yml
cpan/CPAN-Meta/t/data-fixable/META-2.json
cpan/CPAN-Meta/t/data-fixable/meta-spec-version-trailing-zeros.json
cpan/CPAN-Meta/t/data-fixable/meta-spec-version-trailing-zeros.yml
cpan/CPAN-Meta/t/data-fixable/restrictive-2.json
cpan/CPAN-Meta/t/data-fixable/version-ranges-2.json
cpan/CPAN-Meta/t/data-test/gpl-1_4.yml
cpan/CPAN-Meta/t/data-test/META-1_0.yml
cpan/CPAN-Meta/t/data-test/META-1_1.yml
cpan/CPAN-Meta/t/data-test/META-1_2.yml
cpan/CPAN-Meta/t/data-test/META-1_3.yml
cpan/CPAN-Meta/t/data-test/META-1_4.yml
cpan/CPAN-Meta/t/data-test/META-2.json
cpan/CPAN-Meta/t/data-test/META-2.meta
cpan/CPAN-Meta/t/data-test/preserve-release-status.yml
cpan/CPAN-Meta/t/data-test/provides-version-missing.json
cpan/CPAN-Meta/t/data-test/resources.yml
cpan/CPAN-Meta/t/data-test/restricted-2.json
cpan/CPAN-Meta/t/data-test/restrictive-1_4.yml
cpan/CPAN-Meta/t/data-test/unicode.yml
cpan/CPAN-Meta/t/data-test/version-not-normal.json
cpan/CPAN-Meta/t/data-test/version-ranges-1_4.yml
cpan/CPAN-Meta/t/data-test/version-ranges-2.json
cpan/CPAN-Meta/t/data-valid/1122575719-META.yml
cpan/CPAN-Meta/t/data-valid/1206545041-META.yml
cpan/CPAN-Meta/t/data-valid/1985684504-META.yml
cpan/CPAN-Meta/t/data-valid/476602558-META.yml
cpan/CPAN-Meta/t/data-valid/META-1_0.yml
cpan/CPAN-Meta/t/data-valid/META-1_1.yml
cpan/CPAN-Meta/t/data-valid/scalar-meta-spec.yml
cpan/CPAN-Meta/t/load-bad.t
cpan/CPAN-Meta/t/merge.t
cpan/CPAN-Meta/t/meta-obj.t
cpan/CPAN-Meta/t/no-index.t
cpan/CPAN-Meta/t/optional_feature-merge.t
cpan/CPAN-Meta/t/prereqs-finalize.t
cpan/CPAN-Meta/t/prereqs-merge.t
cpan/CPAN-Meta/t/prereqs.t
cpan/CPAN-Meta/t/repository.t
cpan/CPAN-Meta/t/save-load.t
cpan/CPAN-Meta/t/validator.t
cpan/CPAN-Meta-YAML/lib/CPAN/Meta/YAML.pm		CPAN-Meta-YAML files
cpan/CPAN-Meta-YAML/t/01_api.t
cpan/CPAN-Meta-YAML/t/01_compile.t		CPAN-Meta-YAML files
cpan/CPAN-Meta-YAML/t/10_read.t
cpan/CPAN-Meta-YAML/t/11_read_string.t
cpan/CPAN-Meta-YAML/t/12_write.t
cpan/CPAN-Meta-YAML/t/13_write_string.t
cpan/CPAN-Meta-YAML/t/20_subclass.t		CPAN-Meta-YAML files
cpan/CPAN-Meta-YAML/t/21_yamlpm_compat.t
cpan/CPAN-Meta-YAML/t/30_yaml_spec_tml.t
cpan/CPAN-Meta-YAML/t/31_local_tml.t
cpan/CPAN-Meta-YAML/t/32_world_tml.t
cpan/CPAN-Meta-YAML/t/86_fail.t
cpan/CPAN-Meta-YAML/t/data/ascii.yml
cpan/CPAN-Meta-YAML/t/data/latin1.yml
cpan/CPAN-Meta-YAML/t/data/multibyte.yml		CPAN-Meta-YAML files
cpan/CPAN-Meta-YAML/t/data/utf_16_le_bom.yml		CPAN-Meta-YAML files
cpan/CPAN-Meta-YAML/t/data/utf_8_bom.yml
cpan/CPAN-Meta-YAML/t/lib/SubtestCompat.pm
cpan/CPAN-Meta-YAML/t/lib/TestBridge.pm
cpan/CPAN-Meta-YAML/t/lib/TestML/Tiny.pm
cpan/CPAN-Meta-YAML/t/lib/TestUtils.pm
cpan/CPAN-Meta-YAML/t/README.md
cpan/CPAN-Meta-YAML/t/tml
cpan/CPAN-Meta-YAML/t/tml-local/dump-error/circular.tml
cpan/CPAN-Meta-YAML/t/tml-local/load-error/document.tml
cpan/CPAN-Meta-YAML/t/tml-local/load-error/scalar.tml
cpan/CPAN-Meta-YAML/t/tml-local/load-error/tag.tml
cpan/CPAN-Meta-YAML/t/tml-local/load-warning/document.tml
cpan/CPAN-Meta-YAML/t/tml-local/perl-to-yaml/quoting.tml
cpan/CPAN-Meta-YAML/t/tml-local/yaml-roundtrip/collection.tml
cpan/CPAN-Meta-YAML/t/tml-local/yaml-roundtrip/comment.tml
cpan/CPAN-Meta-YAML/t/tml-local/yaml-roundtrip/document.tml
cpan/CPAN-Meta-YAML/t/tml-local/yaml-roundtrip/mapping.tml
cpan/CPAN-Meta-YAML/t/tml-local/yaml-roundtrip/quoting.tml
cpan/CPAN-Meta-YAML/t/tml-local/yaml-roundtrip/scalar.tml
cpan/CPAN-Meta-YAML/t/tml-local/yaml-roundtrip/sequence.tml
cpan/CPAN-Meta-YAML/t/tml-spec/basic-data.tml
cpan/CPAN-Meta-YAML/t/tml-spec/unicode.tml
cpan/CPAN-Meta-YAML/t/tml-world/Acme-Time-Baby.tml
cpan/CPAN-Meta-YAML/t/tml-world/Data-Swap.tml
cpan/CPAN-Meta-YAML/t/tml-world/Games-Nintendo-Wii-Mii.tml
cpan/CPAN-Meta-YAML/t/tml-world/HTML-WebDAO.tml
cpan/CPAN-Meta-YAML/t/tml-world/ITS-SIN-FIDS-Content-XML.tml
cpan/CPAN-Meta-YAML/t/tml-world/Plagger.tml
cpan/CPAN-Meta-YAML/t/tml-world/Spreadsheet-Read.tml
cpan/CPAN-Meta-YAML/t/tml-world/Template-Provider-Unicode-Japanese.tml
cpan/CPAN-Meta-YAML/t/tml-world/toolbar.tml
cpan/CPAN-Meta-YAML/t/tml-world/Vanilla-Perl.tml
cpan/CPAN-Meta-YAML/t/tml-world/yaml_org.tml
cpan/CPAN-Meta-YAML/t/tml-world/YAML-Tiny-META.tml
cpan/CPAN/PAUSE2003.pub		CPAN public key
cpan/CPAN/PAUSE2005.pub		CPAN public key
cpan/CPAN/PAUSE2007.pub		CPAN public key
cpan/CPAN/PAUSE2009.pub		CPAN public key
cpan/CPAN/PAUSE2011.pub
cpan/CPAN/scripts/cpan		easily interact with CPAN from the command line
cpan/CPAN/t/01loadme.t		See if CPAN the module works
cpan/CPAN/t/02nox.t		See if CPAN::Nox works
cpan/CPAN/t/03pkgs.t		See if CPAN::Version works
cpan/CPAN/t/10version.t		See if CPAN the module works
cpan/CPAN/t/11mirroredby.t		See if CPAN::Mirrored::By works
cpan/DB_File/config.in		Part of Berkeley DB configuration
cpan/DB_File/DB_File_BS		Berkeley DB extension mkbootstrap fodder
cpan/DB_File/DB_File.pm		Berkeley DB extension Perl module
cpan/DB_File/DB_File.xs		Berkeley DB extension external subroutines
cpan/DB_File/dbinfo		Berkeley DB database version checker
cpan/DB_File/hints/dynixptx.pl	Hint for DB_File for named architecture
cpan/DB_File/hints/sco.pl	Hint for DB_File for named architecture
cpan/DB_File/Makefile.PL	Berkeley DB extension makefile writer
cpan/DB_File/t/db-btree.t	See if DB_File works
cpan/DB_File/t/db-hash.t	See if DB_File works
cpan/DB_File/t/db-recno.t	See if DB_File works
cpan/DB_File/typemap		Berkeley DB extension interface types
cpan/DB_File/version.c		Berkeley DB extension interface version check
cpan/Devel-PPPort/apicheck_c.PL		Devel::PPPort apicheck generator
cpan/Devel-PPPort/devel/buildperl.pl	Devel::PPPort perl version builder
cpan/Devel-PPPort/devel/devtools.pl	Devel::PPPort development utilities
cpan/Devel-PPPort/devel/mkapidoc.sh	Devel::PPPort apidoc collector
cpan/Devel-PPPort/devel/mktodo		Devel::PPPort baseline/todo generator
cpan/Devel-PPPort/devel/mktodo.pl	Devel::PPPort baseline/todo generator
cpan/Devel-PPPort/devel/regenerate	Devel::PPPort API re-generator
cpan/Devel-PPPort/devel/scanprov	Devel::PPPort provided API scanner
cpan/Devel-PPPort/HACKERS		Devel::PPPort hackers documentation
cpan/Devel-PPPort/Makefile.PL		Devel::PPPort makefile writer
cpan/Devel-PPPort/mktests.PL		Devel::PPPort test file writer
cpan/Devel-PPPort/module2.c		Devel::PPPort test file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/module3.c		Devel::PPPort test file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/apicheck.pl	Devel::PPPort apicheck generator
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/apidoc.fnc	Devel::PPPort Perl API listing
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5003070	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5004000	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5004010	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5004020	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5004030	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5004040	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5004050	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5005000	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5005010	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5005020	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5005030	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5005040	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5006000	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5006001	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5006002	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5007000	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5007001	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5007002	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5007003	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5008000	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5008001	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5008002	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5008003	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5008004	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5008005	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5008006	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5008007	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5008008	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5008009	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5009000	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5009001	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5009002	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5009003	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5009004	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5009005	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5010000	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5010001	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5011000	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5011001	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5011002	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5011003	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5011004	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5011005	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5012000	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5012001	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5012002	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5012003	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5012004	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5012005	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5013000	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5013001	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5013002	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5013003	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5013004	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5013005	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5013006	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5013007	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5013008	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5013009	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5013010	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5013011	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5014000	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5014001	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5014002	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5014003	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5014004	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5015000	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5015001	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5015002	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5015003	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5015004	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5015005	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5015006	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5015007	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5015008	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5015009	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5016000	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5016001	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5016002	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5016003	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5017000	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5017001	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5017002	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5017003	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5017004	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5017005	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5017006	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5017007	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5017008	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5017009	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5017010	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5017011	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5018000	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5018001	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5018002	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5018003	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5018004	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5019000	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5019001	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5019002	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5019003	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5019004	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5019005	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5019006	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5019007	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5019008	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5019009	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5019010	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5019011	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5020000	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5020001	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5021000	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5021001	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5021002	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5021004	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5021005	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5021006	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5021007	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/base/5021008	Devel::PPPort baseline todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/embed.fnc	Devel::PPPort Perl API listing
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/inc/call	Devel::PPPort include
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/inc/cop		Devel::PPPort include
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/inc/exception	Devel::PPPort include
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/inc/format	Devel::PPPort include
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/inc/grok	Devel::PPPort include
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/inc/gv		Devel::PPPort include
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/inc/HvNAME	Devel::PPPort include
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/inc/limits	Devel::PPPort include
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/inc/magic	Devel::PPPort include
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/inc/memory	Devel::PPPort include
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/inc/misc	Devel::PPPort include
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/inc/mPUSH	Devel::PPPort include
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/inc/MY_CXT	Devel::PPPort include
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/inc/newCONSTSUB	Devel::PPPort include
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/inc/newRV	Devel::PPPort include
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/inc/newSVpv	Devel::PPPort include
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/inc/newSV_type	Devel::PPPort include
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/inc/podtest	Devel::PPPort include
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/inc/ppphbin	Devel::PPPort include
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/inc/ppphdoc	Devel::PPPort include
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/inc/ppphtest	Devel::PPPort include
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/inc/pvs		Devel::PPPort include
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/inc/pv_tools	Devel::PPPort include
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/inc/shared_pv	Devel::PPPort include
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/inc/snprintf	Devel::PPPort include
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/inc/sprintf	Devel::PPPort include
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/inc/strlfuncs	Devel::PPPort include
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/inc/SvPV	Devel::PPPort include
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/inc/SvREFCNT	Devel::PPPort include
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/inc/Sv_set	Devel::PPPort include
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/inc/sv_xpvf	Devel::PPPort include
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/inc/threads	Devel::PPPort include
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/inc/uv		Devel::PPPort include
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/inc/variables	Devel::PPPort include
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/inc/version	Devel::PPPort include
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/inc/warn	Devel::PPPort include
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/ppport.fnc	Devel::PPPort API listing
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/ppptools.pl	Devel::PPPort various utilities
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5003070	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5004000	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5004010	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5004020	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5004030	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5004040	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5004050	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5005000	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5005010	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5005020	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5005030	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5005040	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5006000	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5006001	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5006002	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5007000	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5007001	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5007002	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5007003	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5008000	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5008001	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5008002	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5008003	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5008004	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5008005	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5008006	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5008007	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5008008	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5008009	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5009000	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5009001	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5009002	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5009003	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5009004	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5009005	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5010000	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5010001	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5011000	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5011001	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5011002	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5011003	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5011004	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5011005	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5012000	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5012001	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5012002	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5012003	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5012004	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5012005	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5013000	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5013001	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5013002	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5013003	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5013004	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5013005	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5013006	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5013007	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5013008	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5013009	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5013010	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5013011	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5014000	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5014001	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5014002	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5014003	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5014004	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5015000	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5015001	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5015002	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5015003	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5015004	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5015005	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5015006	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5015007	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5015008	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5015009	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5016000	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5016001	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5016002	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5016003	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5017000	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5017001	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5017002	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5017003	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5017004	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5017005	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5017006	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5017007	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5017008	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5017009	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5017010	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5017011	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5018000	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5018001	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5018002	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5018003	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5018004	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5019000	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5019001	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5019002	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5019003	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5019004	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5019005	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5019006	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5019007	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5019008	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5019009	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5019010	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5019011	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5020000	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5020001	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5021000	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5021001	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5021002	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5021004	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5021005	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5021006	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5021007	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/parts/todo/5021008	Devel::PPPort todo file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/ppport_h.PL		Devel::PPPort ppport.h writer
cpan/Devel-PPPort/PPPort_pm.PL		Devel::PPPort PPPort.pm writer
cpan/Devel-PPPort/PPPort.xs		Devel::PPPort dummy PPPort.xs
cpan/Devel-PPPort/PPPort_xs.PL		Devel::PPPort RealPPPort.xs writer
cpan/Devel-PPPort/soak			Devel::PPPort Test Harness to run under various Perls
cpan/Devel-PPPort/t/call.t		Devel::PPPort test file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/t/cop.t		Devel::PPPort test file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/t/exception.t		Devel::PPPort test file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/t/format.t		Devel::PPPort test file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/t/grok.t		Devel::PPPort test file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/t/gv.t		Devel::PPPort test file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/t/HvNAME.t		Devel::PPPort test file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/t/limits.t		Devel::PPPort test file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/t/magic.t		Devel::PPPort test file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/t/memory.t		Devel::PPPort test file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/t/misc.t		Devel::PPPort test file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/t/mPUSH.t		Devel::PPPort test file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/t/MY_CXT.t		Devel::PPPort test file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/t/newCONSTSUB.t	Devel::PPPort test file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/t/newRV.t		Devel::PPPort test file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/t/newSVpv.t		Devel::PPPort test file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/t/newSV_type.t	Devel::PPPort test file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/t/podtest.t		Devel::PPPort test file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/t/ppphtest.t		Devel::PPPort test file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/t/pvs.t		Devel::PPPort test file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/t/pv_tools.t		Devel::PPPort test file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/t/shared_pv.t		Devel::PPPort test file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/t/snprintf.t		Devel::PPPort test file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/t/sprintf.t		Devel::PPPort test file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/t/strlfuncs.t		Devel::PPPort test file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/t/SvPV.t		Devel::PPPort test file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/t/SvREFCNT.t		Devel::PPPort test file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/t/Sv_set.t		Devel::PPPort test file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/t/sv_xpvf.t		Devel::PPPort test file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/t/testutil.pl		Devel::PPPort test utilities
cpan/Devel-PPPort/t/threads.t		Devel::PPPort test file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/t/uv.t		Devel::PPPort test file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/t/variables.t		Devel::PPPort test file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/t/warn.t		Devel::PPPort test file
cpan/Devel-PPPort/typemap		Devel::PPPort Typemap
cpan/Digest/Digest/base.pm	Digest extensions
cpan/Digest/Digest/file.pm	Digest extensions
cpan/Digest/Digest.pm		Digest extensions
cpan/Digest-MD5/hints/dec_osf.pl	Hints for named architecture
cpan/Digest-MD5/hints/irix_6.pl		Hints for named architecture
cpan/Digest-MD5/hints/MacOS.pl		Hints for named architecture
cpan/Digest-MD5/Makefile.PL		Digest::MD5 extension makefile writer
cpan/Digest-MD5/MD5.pm			Digest::MD5 extension
cpan/Digest-MD5/MD5.xs			Digest::MD5 extension
cpan/Digest-MD5/t/align.t		See if Digest::MD5 extension works
cpan/Digest-MD5/t/badfile.t		See if Digest::MD5 extension works
cpan/Digest-MD5/t/bits.t		See if Digest::MD5 extension works
cpan/Digest-MD5/t/clone.t		See if Digest::MD5 extension works
cpan/Digest-MD5/t/files.t		See if Digest::MD5 extension works
cpan/Digest-MD5/t/md5-aaa.t		See if Digest::MD5 extension works
cpan/Digest-MD5/t/threads.t		See if Digest::MD5 extension works
cpan/Digest-MD5/t/utf8.t		See if Digest::MD5 extension works
cpan/Digest-MD5/typemap			Digest::MD5 extension
cpan/Digest-SHA/lib/Digest/SHA.pm	Digest::SHA extension
cpan/Digest-SHA/Makefile.PL		Digest::SHA Makefile.PL
cpan/Digest-SHA/shasum			shasum script
cpan/Digest-SHA/SHA.xs			Digest::SHA extension
cpan/Digest-SHA/src/sdf.c		Digest::SHA extension
cpan/Digest-SHA/src/sha64bit.c		Digest::SHA extension
cpan/Digest-SHA/src/sha64bit.h		Digest::SHA extension
cpan/Digest-SHA/src/sha.c		Digest::SHA extension
cpan/Digest-SHA/src/sha.h		Digest::SHA extension
cpan/Digest-SHA/t/allfcns.t		See if Digest::SHA works
cpan/Digest-SHA/t/base64.t		See if Digest::SHA works
cpan/Digest-SHA/t/bitbuf.t		See if Digest::SHA works
cpan/Digest-SHA/t/bitorder.t
cpan/Digest-SHA/t/fips180-4.t		See if Digest::SHA works
cpan/Digest-SHA/t/fips198.t		See if Digest::SHA works
cpan/Digest-SHA/t/gglong.t		See if Digest::SHA works
cpan/Digest-SHA/t/gg.t			See if Digest::SHA works
cpan/Digest-SHA/t/hmacsha.t		See if Digest::SHA works
cpan/Digest-SHA/t/inheritance.t
cpan/Digest-SHA/t/ireland.t		See if Digest::SHA works
cpan/Digest-SHA/t/methods.t		See if Digest::SHA works
cpan/Digest-SHA/t/nistbit.t		See if Digest::SHA works
cpan/Digest-SHA/t/nistbyte.t		See if Digest::SHA works
cpan/Digest-SHA/t/rfc2202.t		See if Digest::SHA works
cpan/Digest-SHA/t/sha1.t		See if Digest::SHA works
cpan/Digest-SHA/t/sha224.t		See if Digest::SHA works
cpan/Digest-SHA/t/sha256.t		See if Digest::SHA works
cpan/Digest-SHA/t/sha384.t		See if Digest::SHA works
cpan/Digest-SHA/t/sha512.t		See if Digest::SHA works
cpan/Digest-SHA/t/state.t		See if Digest::SHA works
cpan/Digest-SHA/t/unicode.t
cpan/Digest-SHA/t/woodbury.t		See if Digest::SHA works
cpan/Digest-SHA/typemap			Typemap for Digest::SHA
cpan/Digest/t/base.t		See if Digest extensions work
cpan/Digest/t/digest.t		See if Digest extensions work
cpan/Digest/t/file.t		See if Digest extensions work
cpan/Digest/t/lib/Digest/Dummy.pm		See if Digest extensions work
cpan/Digest/t/security.t		See if Digest extensions work
cpan/.dir-locals.el			Emacs control file
cpan/Encode/bin/enc2xs		Encode module generator
cpan/Encode/bin/encguess		guess character encodings of files
cpan/Encode/bin/piconv		iconv by perl
cpan/Encode/bin/ucm2table	Table Generator for testing
cpan/Encode/bin/ucmlint		A UCM Lint utility
cpan/Encode/bin/ucmsort		A UCM sort utility
cpan/Encode/bin/unidump		Unicode Dump like hexdump(1)
cpan/Encode/Byte/Byte.pm		Encode extension
cpan/Encode/Byte/Makefile.PL	Encode extension
cpan/Encode/CN/CN.pm		Encode extension
cpan/Encode/CN/Makefile.PL	Encode extension
cpan/Encode/EBCDIC/EBCDIC.pm	Encode extension
cpan/Encode/EBCDIC/Makefile.PL	Encode extension
cpan/Encode/encengine.c		Encode extension
cpan/Encode/Encode/Changes.e2x	Skeleton file for enc2xs
cpan/Encode/Encode/ConfigLocal_PM.e2x	Skeleton file for enc2xs
cpan/Encode/Encode/encode.h	Encode extension header file
cpan/Encode/Encode/Makefile_PL.e2x	Skeleton file for enc2xs
cpan/Encode/Encode.pm		Mother of all Encode extensions
cpan/Encode/Encode/_PM.e2x	Skeleton file for enc2xs
cpan/Encode/Encode/README.e2x	Skeleton file for enc2xs
cpan/Encode/Encode/_T.e2x	Skeleton file for enc2xs
cpan/Encode/Encode.xs		Encode extension
cpan/Encode/encoding.pm		Perl Pragmatic Module
cpan/Encode/JP/JP.pm		Encode extension
cpan/Encode/JP/Makefile.PL	Encode extension
cpan/Encode/KR/KR.pm		Encode extension
cpan/Encode/KR/Makefile.PL	Encode extension
cpan/Encode/lib/Encode/Alias.pm	Encode extension
cpan/Encode/lib/Encode/CJKConstants.pm	Encode extension
cpan/Encode/lib/Encode/CN/HZ.pm		Encode extension
cpan/Encode/lib/Encode/Config.pm	Encode configuration module
cpan/Encode/lib/Encode/Encoder.pm	OO Encoder
cpan/Encode/lib/Encode/Encoding.pm	Encode extension
cpan/Encode/lib/Encode/GSM0338.pm	Encode extension
cpan/Encode/lib/Encode/Guess.pm	Encode Extension
cpan/Encode/lib/Encode/JP/H2Z.pm	Encode extension
cpan/Encode/lib/Encode/JP/JIS7.pm	Encode extension
cpan/Encode/lib/Encode/KR/2022_KR.pm	Encode extension
cpan/Encode/lib/Encode/MIME/Header/ISO_2022_JP.pm	Encode extension
cpan/Encode/lib/Encode/MIME/Header.pm	Encode extension
cpan/Encode/lib/Encode/MIME/Name.pm	Encode extension
cpan/Encode/lib/Encode/PerlIO.pod	Documents for Encode & PerlIO
cpan/Encode/lib/Encode/Supported.pod	Documents for supported encodings
cpan/Encode/lib/Encode/Unicode/UTF7.pm	Encode extension
cpan/Encode/Makefile.PL			Encode extension makefile writer
cpan/Encode/Symbol/Makefile.PL		Encode extension
cpan/Encode/Symbol/Symbol.pm		Encode extension
cpan/Encode/t/Aliases.t			test script
cpan/Encode/t/at-cn.t			test script
cpan/Encode/t/at-tw.t			test script
cpan/Encode/t/big5-eten.enc		test data
cpan/Encode/t/big5-eten.utf		test data
cpan/Encode/t/big5-hkscs.enc		test data
cpan/Encode/t/big5-hkscs.utf		test data
cpan/Encode/t/CJKT.t			test script
cpan/Encode/t/cow.t
cpan/Encode/t/decode.t
cpan/Encode/t/enc_data.t		test script for utf8 DATA
cpan/Encode/t/enc_eucjp.t		test script
cpan/Encode/t/enc_module.enc		test data for t/enc_module.t
cpan/Encode/t/enc_module.t		test script
cpan/Encode/t/Encoder.t			test script
cpan/Encode/t/Encode.t			test script
cpan/Encode/t/encoding-locale.t		test script
cpan/Encode/t/encoding.t		test script
cpan/Encode/t/enc_utf8.t		test script
cpan/Encode/t/fallback.t		test script
cpan/Encode/t/from_to.t			test script
cpan/Encode/t/gb2312.enc		test data
cpan/Encode/t/gb2312.utf		test data
cpan/Encode/t/grow.t			test script
cpan/Encode/t/gsm0338.t			test script
cpan/Encode/t/guess.t			test script
cpan/Encode/t/isa.t
cpan/Encode/t/jis7-fallback.t		test script
cpan/Encode/t/jisx0201.enc		test data
cpan/Encode/t/jisx0201.utf		test data
cpan/Encode/t/jisx0208.enc		test data
cpan/Encode/t/jisx0208.utf		test data
cpan/Encode/t/jisx0212.enc		test data
cpan/Encode/t/jisx0212.utf		test data
cpan/Encode/t/jperl.t			test script
cpan/Encode/t/ksc5601.enc		test data
cpan/Encode/t/ksc5601.utf		test data
cpan/Encode/t/mime_header_iso2022jp.t	test script
cpan/Encode/t/mime-header.t		test script
cpan/Encode/t/mime-name.t		test script
cpan/Encode/t/Mod_EUCJP.pm		module that t/enc_module.enc uses
cpan/Encode/t/perlio.t			test script
cpan/Encode/t/piconv.t			Test for piconv.t
cpan/Encode/t/rt.pl			test script
cpan/Encode/t/taint.t
cpan/Encode/t/unibench.pl		benchmark script
cpan/Encode/t/Unicode.t			test script
cpan/Encode/t/utf8ref.t			test script
cpan/Encode/t/utf8strict.t		test script
cpan/Encode/t/utf8warnings.t
cpan/Encode/TW/Makefile.PL		Encode extension
cpan/Encode/TW/TW.pm			Encode extension
cpan/Encode/ucm/8859-10.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/8859-11.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/8859-13.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/8859-14.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/8859-15.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/8859-16.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/8859-1.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/8859-2.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/8859-3.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/8859-4.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/8859-5.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/8859-6.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/8859-7.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/8859-8.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/8859-9.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/adobeStdenc.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/adobeSymbol.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/adobeZdingbat.ucm	Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/ascii.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/big5-eten.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/big5-hkscs.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/cp037.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/cp1006.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/cp1026.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/cp1047.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/cp1250.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/cp1251.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/cp1252.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/cp1253.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/cp1254.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/cp1255.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/cp1256.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/cp1257.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/cp1258.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/cp424.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/cp437.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/cp500.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/cp737.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/cp775.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/cp850.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/cp852.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/cp855.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/cp856.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/cp857.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/cp858.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/cp860.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/cp861.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/cp862.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/cp863.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/cp864.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/cp865.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/cp866.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/cp869.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/cp874.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/cp875.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/cp932.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/cp936.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/cp949.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/cp950.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/ctrl.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/dingbats.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/euc-cn.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/euc-jp.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/euc-kr.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/gb12345.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/gb2312.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/hp-roman8.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/ir-165.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/jis0201.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/jis0208.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/jis0212.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/johab.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/koi8-f.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/koi8-r.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/koi8-u.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/ksc5601.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/macArabic.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/macCentEuro.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/macChinsimp.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/macChintrad.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/macCroatian.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/macCyrillic.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/macDingbats.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/macFarsi.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/macGreek.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/macHebrew.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/macIceland.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/macJapanese.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/macKorean.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/macRoman.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/macROMnn.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/macRUMnn.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/macSami.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/macSymbol.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/macThai.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/macTurkish.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/macUkraine.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/nextstep.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/null.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/posix-bc.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/shiftjis.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/symbol.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/ucm/viscii.ucm		Unicode Character Map
cpan/Encode/Unicode/Makefile.PL		Encode extension
cpan/Encode/Unicode/Unicode.pm		Encode extension
cpan/Encode/Unicode/Unicode.xs		Encode extension
cpan/experimental/lib/experimental.pm
cpan/experimental/t/basic.t
cpan/ExtUtils-Constant/lib/ExtUtils/Constant/Base.pm		generate XS code to import C header constants
cpan/ExtUtils-Constant/lib/ExtUtils/Constant.pm			generate XS code to import C header constants
cpan/ExtUtils-Constant/lib/ExtUtils/Constant/ProxySubs.pm	generate XS code for proxy constants
cpan/ExtUtils-Constant/lib/ExtUtils/Constant/Utils.pm		generate XS code to import C header constants
cpan/ExtUtils-Constant/lib/ExtUtils/Constant/XS.pm		generate XS code to import C header constants
cpan/ExtUtils-Constant/t/Constant.t				See if ExtUtils::Constant works
cpan/ExtUtils-Install/lib/ExtUtils/Installed.pm		Information on installed extensions
cpan/ExtUtils-Install/lib/ExtUtils/Install.pm		Handles 'make install' on extensions
cpan/ExtUtils-Install/lib/ExtUtils/Packlist.pm		Manipulates .packlist files
cpan/ExtUtils-Install/t/can_write_dir.t			Does the _can_write_dir function of ExtUtils::Install work properly?
cpan/ExtUtils-Install/t/Installapi2.t			See if new api for ExtUtils::Install::install() works
cpan/ExtUtils-Install/t/Installed.t			See if ExtUtils::Installed works
cpan/ExtUtils-Install/t/Install.t			See if ExtUtils::Install works
cpan/ExtUtils-Install/t/InstallWithMM.t			See if ExtUtils::Install works (related to EUMM/t/basic.t)
cpan/ExtUtils-Install/t/lib/MakeMaker/Test/Setup/BFD.pm	MakeMaker test utilities
cpan/ExtUtils-Install/t/lib/MakeMaker/Test/Utils.pm	MakeMaker test utilities
cpan/ExtUtils-Install/t/lib/TieOut.pm			Testing library to capture prints
cpan/ExtUtils-Install/t/Packlist.t			See if Packlist works
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/bin/instmodsh				Give information about installed extensions
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/lib/ExtUtils/Command/MM.pm		Calling MM functions from the cmd line
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/lib/ExtUtils/Command.pm
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/lib/ExtUtils/Liblist/Kid.pm		Does the real work of the above
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/lib/ExtUtils/Liblist.pm			Locates libraries
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/lib/ExtUtils/MakeMaker/Config.pm	MakeMaker wrapper for Config
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/lib/ExtUtils/MakeMaker/FAQ.pod		MakeMaker FAQ
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/lib/ExtUtils/MakeMaker/Locale.pm
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/lib/ExtUtils/MakeMaker.pm		Write Makefiles for extensions
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/lib/ExtUtils/MakeMaker/Tutorial.pod	Writing a module with MakeMaker
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/lib/ExtUtils/MakeMaker/version.pm
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/lib/ExtUtils/MakeMaker/version/regex.pm
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/lib/ExtUtils/Mkbootstrap.pm		Writes a bootstrap file (see MakeMaker)
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/lib/ExtUtils/Mksymlists.pm		Writes a linker options file for extensions
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/lib/ExtUtils/MM_AIX.pm			MakeMaker methods for AIX
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/lib/ExtUtils/MM_Any.pm			MakeMaker methods for Any OS
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/lib/ExtUtils/MM_BeOS.pm			MakeMaker methods for BeOS
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/lib/ExtUtils/MM_Cygwin.pm		MakeMaker methods for Cygwin
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/lib/ExtUtils/MM_Darwin.pm		MakeMaker methods for Darwin
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/lib/ExtUtils/MM_DOS.pm			MakeMaker methods for DOS
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/lib/ExtUtils/MM_MacOS.pm		MakeMaker methods for MacOS
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/lib/ExtUtils/MM_NW5.pm			MakeMaker methods for NetWare
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/lib/ExtUtils/MM_OS2.pm			MakeMaker methods for OS/2
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/lib/ExtUtils/MM.pm			MakeMaker adaptor class
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/lib/ExtUtils/MM_QNX.pm			MakeMaker methods for QNX
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/lib/ExtUtils/MM_Unix.pm			MakeMaker methods for Unix
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/lib/ExtUtils/MM_UWIN.pm			MakeMaker methods for U/WIN
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/lib/ExtUtils/MM_VMS.pm			MakeMaker methods for VMS
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/lib/ExtUtils/MM_VOS.pm			MakeMaker methods for VOS
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/lib/ExtUtils/MM_Win32.pm		MakeMaker methods for Win32
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/lib/ExtUtils/MM_Win95.pm		MakeMaker methods for Win95
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/lib/ExtUtils/MY.pm			MakeMaker user override class
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/lib/ExtUtils/testlib.pm			Fixes up @INC to use just-built extension
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/t/00compile.t				See if MakeMaker modules compile
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/t/01perl_bugs.t
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/t/arch_check.t				Test MakeMaker's arch_check()
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/t/backwards.t				Check MakeMaker's backwards compatibility
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/t/basic.t				See if MakeMaker can build a module
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/t/build_man.t				Set if MakeMaker builds manpages
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/t/cd.t					Test to see cd works
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/t/config.t				Test ExtUtils::MakeMaker::Config
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/t/cp.t
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/t/dir_target.t				Verify if dir_target() is supported
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/t/echo.t				Test for ExtUtils::MakeMaker
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/t/eu_command.t
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/t/FIRST_MAKEFILE.t			See if FIRST_MAKEFILE works
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/t/fixin.t				See if ExtUtils::MakeMaker works
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/t/fix_libs.t				Test for ExtUtils::MakeMaker
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/t/hints.t				See if hint files are honored.
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/t/INSTALL_BASE.t			Test INSTALL_BASE in MakeMaker
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/t/installed_file.t			Test for ExtUtils::MakeMaker
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/t/INST_PREFIX.t				See if MakeMaker can apply PREFIXs
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/t/INST.t				Check MakeMaker INST_* macros
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/t/is_of_type.t				Test for ExtUtils::MakeMaker
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/t/Liblist.t				See if ExtUtils::Liblist works
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/t/lib/MakeMaker/Test/NoXS.pm		MakeMaker test utilities
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/t/lib/MakeMaker/Test/Setup/BFD.pm	MakeMaker test utilities
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/t/lib/MakeMaker/Test/Setup/MPV.pm	MakeMaker test utilities
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/t/lib/MakeMaker/Test/Setup/PL_FILES.pm	MakeMaker test utilities
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/t/lib/MakeMaker/Test/Setup/Problem.pm	MakeMaker test utilities
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/t/lib/MakeMaker/Test/Setup/Recurs.pm	MakeMaker test utilities
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/t/lib/MakeMaker/Test/Setup/SAS.pm	MakeMaker test utilities
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/t/lib/MakeMaker/Test/Setup/Unicode.pm
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/t/lib/MakeMaker/Test/Setup/XS.pm	MakeMaker test utilities
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/t/lib/MakeMaker/Test/Utils.pm		MakeMaker test utilities
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/t/lib/TieIn.pm				Testing library for dummy input handles
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/t/lib/TieOut.pm				Testing library to capture prints
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/t/MakeMaker_Parameters.t		test "MakeMaker Parameters" section
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/t/make.t				See if make detection works
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/t/maketext_filter.t			See if maketext_filter works
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/t/meta_convert.t				See if MakeMaker works
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/t/metafile_data.t			See if META.yml handling works
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/t/metafile_file.t			See if META.yml handling works
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/t/META_for_testing.json				test data for MakeMaker
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/t/META_for_testing_tricky_version.yml				test data for MakeMaker
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/t/META_for_testing.yml				test data for MakeMaker
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/t/miniperl.t				Test MakeMaker with miniperl
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/t/min_perl_version.t			Test the MIN_PERL_VERSION argument to WriteMakefile.
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/t/Mkbootstrap.t				See if ExtUtils::Mkbootstrap works
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/t/MM_Any.t				See if ExtUtils::MM_Any works
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/t/MM_BeOS.t				See if ExtUtils::MM_BeOS works
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/t/MM_Cygwin.t				See if ExtUtils::MM_Cygwin works
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/t/MM_NW5.t				See if ExtUtils::MM_NW5 works
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/t/MM_OS2.t				See if ExtUtils::MM_OS2 works
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/t/MM_Unix.t				See if ExtUtils::MM_UNIX works
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/t/MM_VMS.t				See if ExtUtils::MM_VMS works
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/t/MM_Win32.t				See if ExtUtils::MM_Win32 works
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/t/oneliner.t				See if MM can generate perl one-liners
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/t/parse_abstract.t			See if parse_abstract works
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/t/parse_version.t			See if parse_version works
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/t/PL_FILES.t				Test PL_FILES in MakeMaker
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/t/pm.t					See if MakeMaker can handle PM
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/t/pm_to_blib.t				Test for ExtUtils::MakeMaker
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/t/pod2man.t				See if MakeMaker can handle no pod2man
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/t/postamble.t				See if postamble works
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/t/prefixify.t				See if MakeMaker can apply a PREFIX
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/t/prereq_print.t				See if PREREQ_PRINT works
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/t/prereq.t				See if MakeMaker works
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/t/problems.t				How MakeMaker reacts to build problems
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/t/prompt.t				See if E::MM::prompt() works
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/t/recurs.t				See if recursive builds work
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/t/revision.t				See if $Revision is correct
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/t/several_authors.t			See if multiple AUTHORs work
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/t/split_command.t			See if MM's xargs-like function works
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/t/test_boilerplate.t			MakeMaker test
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/t/testdata/reallylongdirectoryname/arch1/Config.pm	test data for MakeMaker
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/t/testdata/reallylongdirectoryname/arch2/Config.pm	test data for MakeMaker
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/t/testlib.t				See if ExtUtils::testlib works
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/t/unicode.t
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/t/VERSION_FROM.t			See if MakeMaker's VERSION_FROM works
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/t/vstrings.t
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/t/WriteEmptyMakefile.t			See if WriteEmptyMakefile works
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/t/writemakefile_args.t			See if WriteMakefile works
cpan/ExtUtils-MakeMaker/t/xs.t					Part of MakeMaker's test suite
cpan/ExtUtils-Manifest/lib/ExtUtils/Manifest.pm			Utilities to write MANIFEST files
cpan/ExtUtils-Manifest/lib/ExtUtils/MANIFEST.SKIP		The default MANIFEST.SKIP
cpan/ExtUtils-Manifest/t/Manifest.t				See if ExtUtils::Manifest works
cpan/File-Fetch/lib/File/Fetch.pm	File::Fetch
cpan/File-Fetch/t/01_File-Fetch.t	File::Fetch tests
cpan/File-Fetch/t/null_subclass.t
cpan/File-Path/lib/File/Path.pm		Do things like 'mkdir -p' and 'rm -r'
cpan/File-Path/t/FilePathTest.pm	See if File::Path works
cpan/File-Path/t/Path_root.t		See if File::Path works
cpan/File-Path/t/Path.t			See if File::Path works
cpan/File-Path/t/Path_win32.t		See if File::Path works
cpan/File-Path/t/taint.t		See if File::Path works with -T
cpan/File-Temp/lib/File/Temp.pm	create safe temporary files and file handles
cpan/File-Temp/t/cmp.t		See if File::Temp works
cpan/File-Temp/t/fork.t		See if File::Temp works
cpan/File-Temp/t/lock.t		See if File::Temp works
cpan/File-Temp/t/mktemp.t	See if File::Temp works
cpan/File-Temp/t/object.t	See if File::Temp works
cpan/File-Temp/t/posix.t	See if File::Temp works
cpan/File-Temp/t/rmtree.t	See if File::Temp works
cpan/File-Temp/t/security.t	See if File::Temp works
cpan/File-Temp/t/seekable.t	See if File::Temp works
cpan/File-Temp/t/tempfile.t	See if File::Temp works
cpan/Filter-Util-Call/Call.pm	Filter::Util::Call extension module
cpan/Filter-Util-Call/Call.xs	Filter::Util::Call extension external subroutines
cpan/Filter-Util-Call/filter-util.pl		See if Filter::Util::Call works
cpan/Filter-Util-Call/t/call.t	See if Filter::Util::Call works
cpan/Filter-Util-Call/t/rt_101033.pm
cpan/Filter-Util-Call/t/rt_101033.t
cpan/Filter-Util-Call/t/rt_54452-rebless.t
cpan/Getopt-Long/lib/Getopt/Long.pm	Fetch command options (GetOptions)
cpan/Getopt-Long/t/gol-basic.t		See if Getopt::Long works
cpan/Getopt-Long/t/gol-linkage.t	See if Getopt::Long works
cpan/Getopt-Long/t/gol-oo.t		See if Getopt::Long works
cpan/Getopt-Long/t/gol-xargv.t		See if Getopt::Long works
cpan/Getopt-Long/t/gol-xstring.t	See if Getopt::Long works
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/corpus/auth-01.txt
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/corpus/auth-02.txt
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/corpus/auth-03.txt
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/corpus/auth-04.txt
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/corpus/auth-05.txt
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/corpus/cookies-01.txt
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/corpus/cookies-02.txt
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/corpus/cookies-03.txt
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/corpus/cookies-04.txt
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/corpus/cookies-05.txt
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/corpus/cookies-06.txt
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/corpus/cookies-07.txt
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/corpus/delete-01.txt
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/corpus/form-01.txt
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/corpus/form-02.txt
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/corpus/form-03.txt
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/corpus/form-04.txt
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/corpus/form-05.txt
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/corpus/get-01.txt
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/corpus/get-02.txt
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/corpus/get-03.txt
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/corpus/get-04.txt
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/corpus/get-05.txt
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/corpus/get-06.txt
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/corpus/get-07.txt
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/corpus/get-08.txt
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/corpus/get-09.txt
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/corpus/get-10.txt
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/corpus/get-11.txt
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/corpus/get-12.txt
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/corpus/get-13.txt
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/corpus/get-14.txt
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/corpus/get-15.txt
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/corpus/get-16.txt
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/corpus/get-17.txt
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/corpus/get-18.txt
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/corpus/get-19.txt
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/corpus/get-20.txt
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/corpus/get-21.txt
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/corpus/head-01.txt
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/corpus/keepalive-01.txt
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/corpus/keepalive-02.txt
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/corpus/keepalive-03.txt
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/corpus/keepalive-04.txt
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/corpus/keepalive-05.txt
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/corpus/mirror-01.txt
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/corpus/mirror-02.txt
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/corpus/mirror-03.txt
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/corpus/mirror-04.txt
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/corpus/mirror-05.txt
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/corpus/post-01.txt
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/corpus/proxy-auth-01.txt
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/corpus/put-01.txt
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/corpus/put-02.txt
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/corpus/put-03.txt
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/corpus/put-04.txt
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/corpus/put-05.txt
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/corpus/redirect-01.txt
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/corpus/redirect-02.txt
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/corpus/redirect-03.txt
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/corpus/redirect-04.txt
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/corpus/redirect-05.txt
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/corpus/redirect-06.txt
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/corpus/redirect-07.txt
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/corpus/redirect-08.txt
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/corpus/redirect-09.txt
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/corpus/redirect-10.txt
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/lib/HTTP/Tiny.pm
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/t/000_load.t
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/t/001_api.t
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/t/002_croakage.t
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/t/003_agent.t
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/t/010_url.t
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/t/020_headers.t
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/t/030_response.t
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/t/040_content.t
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/t/050_chunked_body.t
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/t/060_http_date.t
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/t/070_cookie_jar.t
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/t/100_get.t
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/t/101_head.t
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/t/102_put.t
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/t/103_delete.t
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/t/104_post.t
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/t/110_mirror.t
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/t/130_redirect.t
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/t/140_proxy.t
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/t/141_no_proxy.t
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/t/150_post_form.t
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/t/160_cookies.t
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/t/161_basic_auth.t
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/t/162_proxy_auth.t
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/t/170_keepalive.t
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/t/BrokenCookieJar.pm
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/t/SimpleCookieJar.pm
cpan/HTTP-Tiny/t/Util.pm
cpan/IO-Compress/bin/zipdetails				IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/lib/Compress/Zlib.pm			IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/lib/File/GlobMapper.pm			IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/lib/IO/Compress/Adapter/Bzip2.pm	IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/lib/IO/Compress/Adapter/Deflate.pm	IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/lib/IO/Compress/Adapter/Identity.pm	IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/lib/IO/Compress/Base/Common.pm		IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/lib/IO/Compress/Base.pm		IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/lib/IO/Compress/Bzip2.pm		IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/lib/IO/Compress/Deflate.pm		IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/lib/IO/Compress/FAQ.pod		IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/lib/IO/Compress/Gzip/Constants.pm	IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/lib/IO/Compress/Gzip.pm		IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/lib/IO/Compress/RawDeflate.pm		IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/lib/IO/Compress/Zip/Constants.pm	IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/lib/IO/Compress/Zip.pm			IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/lib/IO/Compress/Zlib/Constants.pm	IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/lib/IO/Compress/Zlib/Extra.pm		IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/lib/IO/Uncompress/Adapter/Bunzip2.pm	IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/lib/IO/Uncompress/Adapter/Identity.pm	IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/lib/IO/Uncompress/Adapter/Inflate.pm	IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/lib/IO/Uncompress/AnyInflate.pm	IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/lib/IO/Uncompress/AnyUncompress.pm	IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/lib/IO/Uncompress/Base.pm		IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/lib/IO/Uncompress/Bunzip2.pm		IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/lib/IO/Uncompress/Gunzip.pm		IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/lib/IO/Uncompress/Inflate.pm		IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/lib/IO/Uncompress/RawInflate.pm	IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/lib/IO/Uncompress/Unzip.pm		IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/Makefile.PL				IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/private/MakeUtil.pm			IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/t/000prereq.t				IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/t/001bzip2.t				IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/t/001zlib-generic-deflate.t		IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/t/001zlib-generic-gzip.t		IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/t/001zlib-generic-rawdeflate.t		IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/t/001zlib-generic-zip.t		IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/t/002any-deflate.t			IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/t/002any-gzip.t			IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/t/002any-rawdeflate.t			IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/t/002any-transparent.t			IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/t/002any-zip.t				IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/t/004gziphdr.t				IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/t/005defhdr.t				IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/t/006zip.t				IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/t/01misc.t				IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/t/020isize.t				IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/t/050interop-gzip.t			IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/t/100generic-bzip2.t			IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/t/100generic-deflate.t			IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/t/100generic-gzip.t			IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/t/100generic-rawdeflate.t		IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/t/100generic-zip.t			IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/t/101truncate-bzip2.t			IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/t/101truncate-deflate.t		IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/t/101truncate-gzip.t			IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/t/101truncate-rawdeflate.t		IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/t/101truncate-zip.t			IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/t/102tied-bzip2.t			IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/t/102tied-deflate.t			IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/t/102tied-gzip.t			IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/t/102tied-rawdeflate.t			IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/t/102tied-zip.t			IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/t/103newtied-bzip2.t			IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/t/103newtied-deflate.t			IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/t/103newtied-gzip.t			IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/t/103newtied-rawdeflate.t		IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/t/103newtied-zip.t			IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/t/104destroy-bzip2.t			IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/t/104destroy-deflate.t			IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/t/104destroy-gzip.t			IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/t/104destroy-rawdeflate.t		IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/t/104destroy-zip.t			IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/t/105oneshot-bzip2.t			IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/t/105oneshot-deflate.t			IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/t/105oneshot-gzip-only.t		IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/t/105oneshot-gzip.t			IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/t/105oneshot-rawdeflate.t		IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/t/105oneshot-zip-bzip2-only.t		IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/t/105oneshot-zip-only.t		IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/t/105oneshot-zip-store-only.t		IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/t/105oneshot-zip.t			IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/t/106prime-bzip2.t			IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/t/106prime-deflate.t			IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/t/106prime-gzip.t			IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/t/106prime-rawdeflate.t		IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/t/106prime-zip.t			IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/t/107multi-bzip2.t			IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/t/107multi-deflate.t			IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/t/107multi-gzip.t			IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/t/107multi-rawdeflate.t		IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/t/107multi-zip.t			IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/t/108anyunc-bzip2.t			IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/t/108anyunc-deflate.t			IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/t/108anyunc-gzip.t			IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/t/108anyunc-rawdeflate.t		IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/t/108anyunc-transparent.t		IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/t/108anyunc-zip.t			IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/t/109merge-deflate.t			IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/t/109merge-gzip.t			IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/t/109merge-rawdeflate.t		IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/t/109merge-zip.t			IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/t/110encode-bzip2.t			IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/t/110encode-deflate.t			IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/t/110encode-gzip.t			IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/t/110encode-rawdeflate.t		IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/t/110encode-zip.t			IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/t/111const-deflate.t			IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/t/999pod.t				IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/t/compress/any.pl			Compress::Zlib
cpan/IO-Compress/t/compress/anyunc.pl			Compress::Zlib
cpan/IO-Compress/t/compress/CompTestUtils.pm		Compress::Zlib
cpan/IO-Compress/t/compress/destroy.pl			Compress::Zlib
cpan/IO-Compress/t/compress/encode.pl			Compress::Zlib
cpan/IO-Compress/t/compress/generic.pl			Compress::Zlib
cpan/IO-Compress/t/compress/merge.pl			Compress::Zlib
cpan/IO-Compress/t/compress/multi.pl			Compress::Zlib
cpan/IO-Compress/t/compress/newtied.pl			Compress::Zlib
cpan/IO-Compress/t/compress/oneshot.pl			Compress::Zlib
cpan/IO-Compress/t/compress/prime.pl			Compress::Zlib
cpan/IO-Compress/t/compress/tied.pl			Compress::Zlib
cpan/IO-Compress/t/compress/truncate.pl			Compress::Zlib
cpan/IO-Compress/t/compress/zlib-generic.pl		Compress::Zlib
cpan/IO-Compress/t/cz-01version.t			IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/t/cz-03zlib-v1.t			IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/t/cz-06gzsetp.t			IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/t/cz-08encoding.t			IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/t/cz-14gzopen.t			IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Compress/t/globmapper.t				IO::Compress
cpan/IO-Socket-IP/lib/IO/Socket/IP.pm			IO::Socket::IP
cpan/IO-Socket-IP/t/00use.t				IO::Socket::IP tests
cpan/IO-Socket-IP/t/01local-client-v4.t			IO::Socket::IP tests
cpan/IO-Socket-IP/t/02local-server-v4.t			IO::Socket::IP tests
cpan/IO-Socket-IP/t/03local-cross-v4.t			IO::Socket::IP tests
cpan/IO-Socket-IP/t/04local-client-v6.t			IO::Socket::IP tests
cpan/IO-Socket-IP/t/05local-server-v6.t			IO::Socket::IP tests
cpan/IO-Socket-IP/t/06local-cross-v6.t			IO::Socket::IP tests
cpan/IO-Socket-IP/t/10args.t				IO::Socket::IP tests
cpan/IO-Socket-IP/t/11sockopts.t			IO::Socket::IP tests
cpan/IO-Socket-IP/t/12port-fallback.t			IO::Socket::IP tests
cpan/IO-Socket-IP/t/13addrinfo.t			IO::Socket::IP tests
cpan/IO-Socket-IP/t/14fileno.t				IO::Socket::IP tests
cpan/IO-Socket-IP/t/15io-socket.t			IO::Socket::IP tests
cpan/IO-Socket-IP/t/16v6only.t				IO::Socket::IP tests
cpan/IO-Socket-IP/t/17gai-flags.t			IO::Socket::IP tests
cpan/IO-Socket-IP/t/18fdopen.t				IO::Socket::IP tests
cpan/IO-Socket-IP/t/19no-addrs.t			IO::Socket::IP tests
cpan/IO-Socket-IP/t/20subclass.t			IO::Socket::IP tests
cpan/IO-Socket-IP/t/21as-inet.t				IO::Socket::IP tests
cpan/IO-Socket-IP/t/22timeout.t
cpan/IO-Socket-IP/t/30nonblocking-connect.t		IO::Socket::IP tests
cpan/IO-Socket-IP/t/31nonblocking-connect-internet.t	IO::Socket::IP tests
cpan/IO-Socket-IP/t/99pod.t				IO::Socket::IP tests
cpan/IO-Zlib/t/basic.t		Tests for IO::Zlib
cpan/IO-Zlib/t/external.t	Tests for IO::Zlib
cpan/IO-Zlib/t/getc.t		Tests for IO::Zlib
cpan/IO-Zlib/t/getline.t	Tests for IO::Zlib
cpan/IO-Zlib/t/import.t		Tests for IO::Zlib
cpan/IO-Zlib/t/large.t		Tests for IO::Zlib
cpan/IO-Zlib/t/tied.t		Tests for IO::Zlib
cpan/IO-Zlib/t/uncomp1.t	Tests for IO::Zlib
cpan/IO-Zlib/t/uncomp2.t	Tests for IO::Zlib
cpan/IO-Zlib/Zlib.pm		IO::Zlib
cpan/IPC-Cmd/lib/IPC/Cmd.pm			IPC::Cmd
cpan/IPC-Cmd/t/01_IPC-Cmd.t	IPC::Cmd tests
cpan/IPC-Cmd/t/02_Interactive.t	IPC::Cmd tests
cpan/IPC-Cmd/t/03_run-forked.t	IPC::Cmd tests
cpan/IPC-Cmd/t/src/child.pl	IPC::Cmd tests
cpan/IPC-Cmd/t/src/output.pl	IPC::Cmd tests
cpan/IPC-Cmd/t/src/x.tgz	IPC::Cmd tests
cpan/IPC-SysV/hints/cygwin.pl		Hint for IPC::SysV for named architecture
cpan/IPC-SysV/hints/next_3.pl		Hint for IPC::SysV for named architecture
cpan/IPC-SysV/lib/IPC/Msg.pm		IPC::SysV extension Perl module
cpan/IPC-SysV/lib/IPC/Semaphore.pm	IPC::SysV extension Perl module
cpan/IPC-SysV/lib/IPC/SharedMem.pm	IPC::SysV extension Perl module
cpan/IPC-SysV/lib/IPC/SysV.pm		IPC::SysV extension Perl module
cpan/IPC-SysV/Makefile.PL		IPC::SysV makefile writer
cpan/IPC-SysV/regen.pl			IPC::SysV file regeneration script
cpan/IPC-SysV/SysV.xs			IPC::SysV extension Perl module
cpan/IPC-SysV/t/ipcsysv.t		IPC::SysV test file
cpan/IPC-SysV/t/msg.t			IPC::SysV test file
cpan/IPC-SysV/t/podcov.t		IPC::SysV test file
cpan/IPC-SysV/t/pod.t			IPC::SysV test file
cpan/IPC-SysV/t/sem.t			IPC::SysV test file
cpan/IPC-SysV/t/shm.t			IPC::SysV test file
cpan/IPC-SysV/typemap			IPC::SysV typemap
cpan/JSON-PP/bin/json_pp
cpan/JSON-PP/lib/JSON/PP/Boolean.pm
cpan/JSON-PP/lib/JSON/PP.pm
cpan/JSON-PP/t/000_load.t
cpan/JSON-PP/t/001_utf8.t
cpan/JSON-PP/t/002_error.t
cpan/JSON-PP/t/003_types.t
cpan/JSON-PP/t/006_pc_pretty.t
cpan/JSON-PP/t/007_pc_esc.t
cpan/JSON-PP/t/008_pc_base.t
cpan/JSON-PP/t/009_pc_extra_number.t
cpan/JSON-PP/t/010_pc_keysort.t
cpan/JSON-PP/t/011_pc_expo.t
cpan/JSON-PP/t/012_blessed.t
cpan/JSON-PP/t/013_limit.t
cpan/JSON-PP/t/014_latin1.t
cpan/JSON-PP/t/015_prefix.t
cpan/JSON-PP/t/016_tied.t
cpan/JSON-PP/t/017_relaxed.t
cpan/JSON-PP/t/018_json_checker.t
cpan/JSON-PP/t/019_incr.t
cpan/JSON-PP/t/020_unknown.t
cpan/JSON-PP/t/021_evans_bugrep.t
cpan/JSON-PP/t/022_comment_at_eof.t
cpan/JSON-PP/t/099_binary.t
cpan/JSON-PP/t/104_sortby.t
cpan/JSON-PP/t/105_esc_slash.t
cpan/JSON-PP/t/106_allow_barekey.t
cpan/JSON-PP/t/107_allow_singlequote.t
cpan/JSON-PP/t/108_decode.t
cpan/JSON-PP/t/109_encode.t
cpan/JSON-PP/t/110_bignum.t
cpan/JSON-PP/t/112_upgrade.t
cpan/JSON-PP/t/113_overloaded_eq.t
cpan/JSON-PP/t/114_decode_prefix.t
cpan/JSON-PP/t/115_tie_ixhash.t
cpan/JSON-PP/t/116_incr_parse_fixed.t
cpan/JSON-PP/t/_unicode_handling.pm
cpan/JSON-PP/t/zero-mojibake.t
cpan/libnet/lib/Net/Cmd.pm
cpan/libnet/lib/Net/Config.pm
cpan/libnet/lib/Net/Domain.pm
cpan/libnet/lib/Net/FTP/A.pm
cpan/libnet/lib/Net/FTP/dataconn.pm
cpan/libnet/lib/Net/FTP/E.pm
cpan/libnet/lib/Net/FTP/I.pm
cpan/libnet/lib/Net/FTP/L.pm
cpan/libnet/lib/Net/FTP.pm
cpan/libnet/lib/Net/libnetFAQ.pod
cpan/libnet/lib/Net/Netrc.pm
cpan/libnet/lib/Net/NNTP.pm
cpan/libnet/lib/Net/POP3.pm
cpan/libnet/lib/Net/SMTP.pm
cpan/libnet/lib/Net/Time.pm
cpan/libnet/Makefile.PL
cpan/libnet/t/config.t		libnet
cpan/libnet/t/datasend.t	libnet
cpan/libnet/t/ftp.t		libnet
cpan/libnet/t/hostname.t	libnet
cpan/libnet/t/libnet_t.pl	libnet
cpan/libnet/t/netrc.t		libnet
cpan/libnet/t/nntp_ipv6.t
cpan/libnet/t/nntp_ssl.t
cpan/libnet/t/nntp.t		libnet
cpan/libnet/t/pop3_ipv6.t
cpan/libnet/t/pop3_ssl.t
cpan/libnet/t/require.t		libnet
cpan/libnet/t/smtp_ipv6.t
cpan/libnet/t/smtp_ssl.t
cpan/libnet/t/smtp.t		libnet
cpan/libnet/t/time.t		libnet
cpan/Locale-Codes/lib/Locale/Codes/API.pod	Locale::Codes documentation
cpan/Locale-Codes/lib/Locale/Codes/Changes.pod	Locale::Codes documentation
cpan/Locale-Codes/lib/Locale/Codes/Constants.pm	Locale::Codes
cpan/Locale-Codes/lib/Locale/Codes/Country_Codes.pm	Locale::Codes
cpan/Locale-Codes/lib/Locale/Codes/Country.pm	Locale::Codes
cpan/Locale-Codes/lib/Locale/Codes/Country.pod	Locale::Codes documentation
cpan/Locale-Codes/lib/Locale/Codes/Country_Retired.pm	Locale::Codes
cpan/Locale-Codes/lib/Locale/Codes/Currency_Codes.pm	Locale::Codes
cpan/Locale-Codes/lib/Locale/Codes/Currency.pm	Locale::Codes
cpan/Locale-Codes/lib/Locale/Codes/Currency.pod	Locale::Codes documentation
cpan/Locale-Codes/lib/Locale/Codes/Currency_Retired.pm	Locale::Codes
cpan/Locale-Codes/lib/Locale/Codes/LangExt_Codes.pm	Locale::Codes
cpan/Locale-Codes/lib/Locale/Codes/LangExt.pm	Locale::Codes
cpan/Locale-Codes/lib/Locale/Codes/LangExt.pod	Locale::Codes documentation
cpan/Locale-Codes/lib/Locale/Codes/LangExt_Retired.pm	Locale::Codes
cpan/Locale-Codes/lib/Locale/Codes/LangFam_Codes.pm	Locale::Codes
cpan/Locale-Codes/lib/Locale/Codes/LangFam.pm	Locale::Codes
cpan/Locale-Codes/lib/Locale/Codes/LangFam.pod	Locale::Codes
cpan/Locale-Codes/lib/Locale/Codes/LangFam_Retired.pm	Locale::Codes
cpan/Locale-Codes/lib/Locale/Codes/Language_Codes.pm	Locale::Codes
cpan/Locale-Codes/lib/Locale/Codes/Language.pm	Locale::Codes
cpan/Locale-Codes/lib/Locale/Codes/Language.pod	Locale::Codes documentation
cpan/Locale-Codes/lib/Locale/Codes/Language_Retired.pm	Locale::Codes
cpan/Locale-Codes/lib/Locale/Codes/LangVar_Codes.pm	Locale::Codes
cpan/Locale-Codes/lib/Locale/Codes/LangVar.pm	Locale::Codes
cpan/Locale-Codes/lib/Locale/Codes/LangVar.pod	Locale::Codes documentation
cpan/Locale-Codes/lib/Locale/Codes/LangVar_Retired.pm	Locale::Codes
cpan/Locale-Codes/lib/Locale/Codes.pm		Locale::Codes
cpan/Locale-Codes/lib/Locale/Codes.pod		Locale::Codes documentation
cpan/Locale-Codes/lib/Locale/Codes/Script_Codes.pm	Locale::Codes
cpan/Locale-Codes/lib/Locale/Codes/Script.pm	Locale::Codes
cpan/Locale-Codes/lib/Locale/Codes/Script.pod	Locale::Codes documentation
cpan/Locale-Codes/lib/Locale/Codes/Script_Retired.pm	Locale::Codes
cpan/Locale-Codes/lib/Locale/Country.pm		Locale::Codes
cpan/Locale-Codes/lib/Locale/Country.pod	Locale::Codes documentation
cpan/Locale-Codes/lib/Locale/Currency.pm	Locale::Codes
cpan/Locale-Codes/lib/Locale/Currency.pod	Locale::Codes documentation
cpan/Locale-Codes/lib/Locale/Language.pm	Locale::Codes
cpan/Locale-Codes/lib/Locale/Language.pod	Locale::Codes documentation
cpan/Locale-Codes/lib/Locale/Script.pm		Locale::Codes
cpan/Locale-Codes/lib/Locale/Script.pod		Locale::Codes documentation
cpan/Locale-Codes/t/code2country_old.t	Locale::Codes tests
cpan/Locale-Codes/t/code2country.t		Locale::Codes tests
cpan/Locale-Codes/t/code2currency.t		Locale::Codes tests
cpan/Locale-Codes/t/code2langext.t	Locale::Codes tests
cpan/Locale-Codes/t/code2langfam.t	Locale::Codes tests
cpan/Locale-Codes/t/code2language.t		Locale::Codes tests
cpan/Locale-Codes/t/code2langvar.t	Locale::Codes tests
cpan/Locale-Codes/t/code2script.t		Locale::Codes tests
cpan/Locale-Codes/t/country2code_old.t	Locale::Codes tests
cpan/Locale-Codes/t/country2code.t		Locale::Codes tests
cpan/Locale-Codes/t/country_code2code_old.t	Locale::Codes tests
cpan/Locale-Codes/t/country_code2code.t		Locale::Codes tests
cpan/Locale-Codes/t/country_old.t	Locale::Codes tests
cpan/Locale-Codes/t/country.t			Locale::Codes tests
cpan/Locale-Codes/t/currency2code_old.t	Locale::Codes tests
cpan/Locale-Codes/t/currency2code.t		Locale::Codes tests
cpan/Locale-Codes/t/langext2code.t	Locale::Codes tests
cpan/Locale-Codes/t/langfam2code.t	Locale::Codes tests
cpan/Locale-Codes/t/language2code.t		Locale::Codes tests
cpan/Locale-Codes/t/language_old.t	Locale::Codes tests
cpan/Locale-Codes/t/language.t			Locale::Codes tests
cpan/Locale-Codes/t/langvar2code.t	Locale::Codes tests
cpan/Locale-Codes/t/script2code_old.t	Locale::Codes tests
cpan/Locale-Codes/t/script2code.t		Locale::Codes tests
cpan/Locale-Codes/t/testfunc.pl			Locale::Codes tests
cpan/Locale-Maketext-Simple/lib/Locale/Maketext/Simple.pm	Locale::Simple
cpan/Locale-Maketext-Simple/t/0-signature.t			Locale::Simple tests
cpan/Locale-Maketext-Simple/t/1-basic.t				Locale::Simple tests
cpan/Locale-Maketext-Simple/t/2-load_po_without_i_default.t	Locale::Simple tests
cpan/Locale-Maketext-Simple/t/3-load_po_with_i_default.t	Locale::Simple tests
cpan/Locale-Maketext-Simple/t/po_with_i_default/en.po		Locale::Simple tests
cpan/Locale-Maketext-Simple/t/po_with_i_default/fr.po		Locale::Simple tests
cpan/Locale-Maketext-Simple/t/po_with_i_default/i_default.po	Locale::Simple tests
cpan/Locale-Maketext-Simple/t/po_without_i_default/en.po	Locale::Simple tests
cpan/Locale-Maketext-Simple/t/po_without_i_default/fr.po	Locale::Simple tests
cpan/Math-BigInt-FastCalc/FastCalc.xs	Math::BigInt::FastCalc extension
cpan/Math-BigInt-FastCalc/lib/Math/BigInt/FastCalc.pm	Math::BigInt::FastCalc extension
cpan/Math-BigInt-FastCalc/t/bigintfc.t	Math::BigInt::FastCalc extension
cpan/Math-BigInt-FastCalc/t/bootstrap.t	Math::BigInt::FastCalc extension
cpan/Math-BigInt-FastCalc/t/leak.t	test for memory leaks in Math::BigInt::FastCalc
cpan/Math-BigInt-FastCalc/t/mbi_rand.t	Math::BigInt::FastCalc extension
cpan/Math-BigInt/lib/Math/BigFloat.pm		An arbitrary precision floating-point arithmetic package
cpan/Math-BigInt/lib/Math/BigInt/CalcEmu.pm	Pure Perl module to support Math::BigInt
cpan/Math-BigInt/lib/Math/BigInt/Calc.pm	Pure Perl module to support Math::BigInt
cpan/Math-BigInt/lib/Math/BigInt.pm	An arbitrary precision integer arithmetic package
cpan/Math-BigInt/t/alias.inc		Support for BigInt tests
cpan/Math-BigInt/t/bare_mbf.t		Test MBF under Math::BigInt::BareCalc
cpan/Math-BigInt/t/bare_mbi.t		Test MBI under Math::BigInt::BareCalc
cpan/Math-BigInt/t/bare_mif.t		Rounding tests under BareCalc
cpan/Math-BigInt/t/bigfltpm.inc		Shared tests for bigfltpm.t and sub_mbf.t
cpan/Math-BigInt/t/bigfltpm.t		See if BigFloat.pm works
cpan/Math-BigInt/t/bigintc.t		See if BigInt/Calc.pm works
cpan/Math-BigInt/t/bigintpm.inc		Shared tests for bigintpm.t and sub_mbi.t
cpan/Math-BigInt/t/bigintpm.t		See if BigInt.pm works
cpan/Math-BigInt/t/bigints.t		See if BigInt.pm works
cpan/Math-BigInt/t/biglog.t		Test the log function
cpan/Math-BigInt/t/big_pi_e.t		test bpi() and bexp()
cpan/Math-BigInt/t/bigroot.t		Test the broot function
cpan/Math-BigInt/t/calling.t		Test calling conventions
cpan/Math-BigInt/t/config.t		Test Math::BigInt->config()
cpan/Math-BigInt/t/constant.t		Test Math::BigInt/BigFloat under :constant
cpan/Math-BigInt/t/const_mbf.t		Test Math::BigInt
cpan/Math-BigInt/t/downgrade.t		Test if use Math::BigInt(); under downgrade works
cpan/Math-BigInt/t/_e_math.t		Helper routine in BigFloat for _e math
cpan/Math-BigInt/t/from_hex-mbf.t	Test Math::BigInt
cpan/Math-BigInt/t/inf_nan.t		Special tests for inf and *NaN* handling
cpan/Math-BigInt/t/isa.t		Test for Math::BigInt inheritance
cpan/Math-BigInt/t/lib_load.t		Test sane lib names
cpan/Math-BigInt/t/Math/BigFloat/Subclass.pm	Empty subclass of BigFloat for test
cpan/Math-BigInt/t/Math/BigInt/BareCalc.pm	Bigint's simulation of Calc
cpan/Math-BigInt/t/Math/BigInt/Scalar.pm	Pure Perl module to support Math::BigInt
cpan/Math-BigInt/t/Math/BigInt/Subclass.pm	Empty subclass of BigInt for test
cpan/Math-BigInt/t/mbf_ali.t		Tests for BigFloat
cpan/Math-BigInt/t/mbi_ali.t		Tests for BigInt
cpan/Math-BigInt/t/mbimbf.inc		Actual BigInt/BigFloat accuracy, precision and fallback, round_mode tests
cpan/Math-BigInt/t/mbimbf.t		BigInt/BigFloat accuracy, precision and fallback, round_mode
cpan/Math-BigInt/t/mbi_rand.t		Test Math::BigInt randomly
cpan/Math-BigInt/t/nan_cmp.t		overloaded comparison involving *NaN*
cpan/Math-BigInt/t/new_overloaded.t	test overloaded numbers in BigFloat's new()
cpan/Math-BigInt/t/objectify_mbf.t	Math::BigInt tests
cpan/Math-BigInt/t/objectify_mbi.t	Math::BigInt tests
cpan/Math-BigInt/t/req_mbf0.t		test: require Math::BigFloat; ->bzero();
cpan/Math-BigInt/t/req_mbf1.t		test: require Math::BigFloat; ->bone();
cpan/Math-BigInt/t/req_mbfa.t		test: require Math::BigFloat; ->bnan();
cpan/Math-BigInt/t/req_mbfi.t		test: require Math::BigFloat; ->binf();
cpan/Math-BigInt/t/req_mbfn.t		test: require Math::BigFloat; ->new();
cpan/Math-BigInt/t/req_mbfw.t		require Math::BigFloat; import ( with => );
cpan/Math-BigInt/t/require.t		Test if require Math::BigInt works
cpan/Math-BigInt/t/round.t		Test rounding with non-integer A and P
cpan/Math-BigInt/t/rt-16221.t		Tests for objectify() w/foreign objs
cpan/Math-BigInt/t/sub_ali.t		Tests for aliases in BigInt subclasses
cpan/Math-BigInt/t/sub_mbf.t		Empty subclass test of BigFloat
cpan/Math-BigInt/t/sub_mbi.t		Empty subclass test of BigInt
cpan/Math-BigInt/t/sub_mif.t		Test A & P with subclasses using mbimbf.inc
cpan/Math-BigInt/t/trap.t		Test whether trap_nan and trap_inf work
cpan/Math-BigInt/t/upgrade2.t		Test that two upgrade levels work
cpan/Math-BigInt/t/upgradef.t		Test if use Math::BigFloat(); under upgrade works
cpan/Math-BigInt/t/upgrade.inc		Actual tests for upgrade.t
cpan/Math-BigInt/t/upgrade.t		Test if use Math::BigInt(); under upgrade works
cpan/Math-BigInt/t/use_lib1.t		Test combinations of Math::BigInt and BigFloat
cpan/Math-BigInt/t/use_lib2.t		Test combinations of Math::BigInt and BigFloat
cpan/Math-BigInt/t/use_lib3.t		Test combinations of Math::BigInt and BigFloat
cpan/Math-BigInt/t/use_lib4.t		Test combinations of Math::BigInt and BigFloat
cpan/Math-BigInt/t/use_mbfw.t		use BigFloat w/ with and lib at the same time
cpan/Math-BigInt/t/use.t		Test if use Math::BigInt(); works
cpan/Math-BigInt/t/with_sub.t		Test use Math::BigFloat with => package
cpan/Math-BigRat/lib/Math/BigRat.pm	Math::BigRat
cpan/Math-BigRat/t/big_ap.t		Math::BigRat test
cpan/Math-BigRat/t/bigfltpm.inc		Math::BigRat test
cpan/Math-BigRat/t/bigfltrt.t		Math::BigRat test
cpan/Math-BigRat/t/biglog.t		Math::BigRat test
cpan/Math-BigRat/t/bigratpm.inc		Math::BigRat test
cpan/Math-BigRat/t/bigratpm.t		Math::BigRat test
cpan/Math-BigRat/t/bigrat.t		Math::BigRat test
cpan/Math-BigRat/t/bigratup.t		test under $Math::BigInt::upgrade
cpan/Math-BigRat/t/bigroot.t		Math::BigRat test
cpan/Math-BigRat/t/bitwise.t		Math::BigRat test
cpan/Math-BigRat/t/hang.t		Math::BigRat test for bug #34584 - hang in exp()
cpan/Math-BigRat/t/Math/BigRat/Test.pm	Math::BigRat test helper
cpan/Math-BigRat/t/requirer.t		see if require works properly
cpan/Math-BigRat/t/trap.t		see if trap_nan and trap_inf work
cpan/Math-Complex/lib/Math/Complex.pm	A Complex package
cpan/Math-Complex/lib/Math/Trig.pm	A simple interface to complex trigonometry
cpan/Math-Complex/t/Complex.t		See if Math::Complex works
cpan/Math-Complex/t/Trig.t		See if Math::Trig works
cpan/Math-Complex/t/underbar.t		See if Math::Complex works
cpan/Memoize/Memoize/AnyDBM_File.pm	Memoize glue layer for AnyDBM_File
cpan/Memoize/Memoize/ExpireFile.pm	Memoize expiry manager test scaffold
cpan/Memoize/Memoize/Expire.pm		Memoize expiry manager example
cpan/Memoize/Memoize/ExpireTest.pm	Memoize expiry manager test scaffold
cpan/Memoize/Memoize/NDBM_File.pm	Memoize glue layer for NDBM_File
cpan/Memoize/Memoize.pm			Memoize
cpan/Memoize/Memoize/SDBM_File.pm	Memoize glue layer for SDBM_File
cpan/Memoize/Memoize/Storable.pm	Memoize glue layer for Storable
cpan/Memoize/t/array_confusion.t	Memoize ambiguous array return tests
cpan/Memoize/t/array.t			Memoize array context return tests
cpan/Memoize/t/correctness.t		Memoize basic correctness tests
cpan/Memoize/t/errors.t			Memoize PEBKAC detection tests
cpan/Memoize/t/expfile.t		Memoize expiry manager tests
cpan/Memoize/t/expire.t			Memoize expiry manager tests
cpan/Memoize/t/expmod_n.t		Memoize expiry manager tests
cpan/Memoize/t/expmod_t.t		Memoize expiry manager (timed) tests
cpan/Memoize/t/flush.t			Memoize 'flush_cache' function tests
cpan/Memoize/t/normalize.t		Memoize 'normalizer' feature tests
cpan/Memoize/t/prototype.t		Memoize prototyped function handling tests
cpan/Memoize/t/speed.t			"Makes functions faster" advertisement test
cpan/Memoize/t/tiefeatures.t		Memoize FAULT / MERGE / HASH options test
cpan/Memoize/t/tie_gdbm.t		Memoize GDBM interface test
cpan/Memoize/t/tie_ndbm.t		Memoize NDBM interface test
cpan/Memoize/t/tie_sdbm.t		Memoize SDBM interface test
cpan/Memoize/t/tie_storable.t		Memoize Storable interface test
cpan/Memoize/t/tie.t			Memoize tied file test
cpan/Memoize/t/unmemoize.t		Memoize 'unmemoize' function test
cpan/MIME-Base64/Base64.pm		MIME::Base64 extension
cpan/MIME-Base64/Base64.xs		MIME::Base64 extension
cpan/MIME-Base64/QuotedPrint.pm		MIME::Base64 extension
cpan/MIME-Base64/t/base64.t		See whether MIME::Base64 works
cpan/MIME-Base64/t/length.t	See whether MIME::QuotedPrint works
cpan/MIME-Base64/t/quoted-print.t	See whether MIME::QuotedPrint works
cpan/MIME-Base64/t/unicode.t		See whether MIME::Base64 works
cpan/Module-Load-Conditional/lib/Module/Load/Conditional.pm	Module::Conditional
cpan/Module-Load-Conditional/t/01_Module_Load_Conditional.t	Module::Conditional tests
cpan/Module-Load-Conditional/t/test_lib/a/X.pm			Module::Conditional tests
cpan/Module-Load-Conditional/t/test_lib/b/X.pm			Module::Conditional tests
cpan/Module-Load-Conditional/t/to_load/AutoLoad.pm		Module::Conditional tests
cpan/Module-Load-Conditional/t/to_load/Commented.pm		Module::Conditional tests
cpan/Module-Load-Conditional/t/to_load/InPod.pm			Module::Load::Conditional tests
cpan/Module-Load-Conditional/t/to_load/LoadIt.pm		Module::Conditional tests
cpan/Module-Load-Conditional/t/to_load/LoadMe.pl		Module::Conditional tests
cpan/Module-Load-Conditional/t/to_load/MustBe/Loaded.pm		Module::Load::Conditional tests
cpan/Module-Load-Conditional/t/to_load/NotAutoLoad.pm		Module::Conditional tests
cpan/Module-Load-Conditional/t/to_load/NotMain.pm		Module::Conditional tests
cpan/Module-Load-Conditional/t/to_load/NotX.pm			Module::Conditional tests
cpan/Module-Load-Conditional/t/to_load/ToBeLoaded		Module::Conditional tests
cpan/Module-Loaded/lib/Module/Loaded.pm	Module::Loaded
cpan/Module-Loaded/t/01_Module-Loaded.t	Module::Loaded tests
cpan/Module-Load/lib/Module/Load.pm		Module::Load
cpan/Module-Load/t/01_Module-Load.t		Module::Load tests
cpan/Module-Load/t/02_Module-Load.t		Module::Load tests
cpan/Module-Load/t/to_load/config_file		Module::Load tests
cpan/Module-Load/t/to_load/LoadIt.pm		Module::Load tests
cpan/Module-Load/t/to_load/LoadMe.pl		Module::Load tests
cpan/Module-Load/t/to_load/Must/Be/Loaded.pm	Module::Load tests
cpan/Module-Load/t/to_load/TestModule.pm	Module::Load tests
cpan/Module-Load/t/to_load/ToBeLoaded		Module::Load tests
cpan/Module-Metadata/corpus/BOMTest/UTF16BE.pm
cpan/Module-Metadata/corpus/BOMTest/UTF16LE.pm
cpan/Module-Metadata/corpus/BOMTest/UTF8.pm
cpan/Module-Metadata/lib/Module/Metadata.pm
cpan/Module-Metadata/t/contains_pod.t
cpan/Module-Metadata/t/encoding.t
cpan/Module-Metadata/t/endpod.t
cpan/Module-Metadata/t/extract-package.t
cpan/Module-Metadata/t/extract-version.t
cpan/Module-Metadata/t/lib/0_1/Foo.pm
cpan/Module-Metadata/t/lib/0_2/Foo.pm
cpan/Module-Metadata/t/lib/ENDPOD.pm
cpan/Module-Metadata/t/lib/GeneratePackage.pm
cpan/Module-Metadata/t/metadata.t
cpan/Module-Metadata/t/taint.t
cpan/Module-Metadata/t/version.t
cpan/NEXT/lib/NEXT.pm		Pseudo-class NEXT for method redispatch
cpan/NEXT/t/actual.t		NEXT
cpan/NEXT/t/actuns.t		NEXT
cpan/NEXT/t/dynamically_scoped_regex_vars.t	NEXT
cpan/NEXT/t/next.t		NEXT
cpan/NEXT/t/stringify.t		NEXT
cpan/NEXT/t/unseen.t		NEXT
cpan/OpenBSD-MkTemp/lib/OpenBSD/MkTemp.pm	OpenBSD::MkTemp
cpan/OpenBSD-MkTemp/MkTemp.xs	OpenBSD::MkTemp
cpan/OpenBSD-MkTemp/README	OpenBSD::MkTemp Readme
cpan/OpenBSD-MkTemp/t/OpenBSD-MkTemp.t	OpenBSD::MkTemp test file
cpan/OpenBSD-Pledge/lib/OpenBSD/Pledge.pm	OpenBSD::Pledge
cpan/OpenBSD-Pledge/Pledge.xs	OpenBSD::Pledge
cpan/OpenBSD-Pledge/t/OpenBSD-Pledge.t	OpenBSD::Pledge test file
cpan/Params-Check/lib/Params/Check.pm	Params::Check
cpan/Params-Check/t/01_Params-Check.t	Params::Check tests
cpan/parent/lib/parent.pm			Establish an ISA relationship with base classes at compile time
cpan/parent/t/compile-time-file.t		tests for parent.pm
cpan/parent/t/compile-time.t			tests for parent.pm
cpan/parent/t/lib/Dummy2.plugin			test files for parent.pm
cpan/parent/t/lib/Dummy/Outside.pm		test files for parent.pm
cpan/parent/t/lib/Dummy.pm			test files for parent.pm
cpan/parent/t/lib/FileThatOnlyExistsAsPMC.pmc	test files for parent.pm
cpan/parent/t/lib/ReturnsFalse.pm		test files for parent.pm
cpan/parent/t/parent-classfromclassfile.t	tests for parent.pm
cpan/parent/t/parent-classfromfile.t		tests for parent.pm
cpan/parent/t/parent-pmc.t			tests for parent.pm
cpan/parent/t/parent-returns-false.t		tests for parent.pm
cpan/parent/t/parent.t				tests for parent.pm
cpan/Parse-CPAN-Meta/corpus/BadMETA.yml
cpan/Parse-CPAN-Meta/corpus/bareyaml.meta
cpan/Parse-CPAN-Meta/corpus/json.meta
cpan/Parse-CPAN-Meta/corpus/META-VR.json
cpan/Parse-CPAN-Meta/corpus/META-VR.yml
cpan/Parse-CPAN-Meta/corpus/yaml.meta
cpan/Parse-CPAN-Meta/lib/Parse/CPAN/Meta.pm
cpan/Parse-CPAN-Meta/t/02_api.t
cpan/Parse-CPAN-Meta/t/03_functions.t
cpan/Parse-CPAN-Meta/t/04_export.t
cpan/Parse-CPAN-Meta/t/05_errors.t
cpan/Parse-CPAN-Meta/t/lib/Parse/CPAN/Meta/Test.pm
cpan/perlfaq/lib/perlfaq1.pod		General Questions About Perl
cpan/perlfaq/lib/perlfaq2.pod	Obtaining and Learning about Perl
cpan/perlfaq/lib/perlfaq3.pod	Programming Tools
cpan/perlfaq/lib/perlfaq4.pod	Data Manipulation
cpan/perlfaq/lib/perlfaq5.pod	Files and Formats
cpan/perlfaq/lib/perlfaq6.pod	Regexes
cpan/perlfaq/lib/perlfaq7.pod	Perl Language Issues
cpan/perlfaq/lib/perlfaq8.pod	System Interaction
cpan/perlfaq/lib/perlfaq9.pod	Networking
cpan/perlfaq/lib/perlfaq.pm	Perl frequently asked questions
cpan/perlfaq/lib/perlfaq.pod	Perl frequently asked questions
cpan/perlfaq/lib/perlglossary.pod	Perl Glossary
cpan/PerlIO-via-QuotedPrint/lib/PerlIO/via/QuotedPrint.pm	PerlIO::via::QuotedPrint
cpan/PerlIO-via-QuotedPrint/t/QuotedPrint.t			PerlIO::via::QuotedPrint
cpan/Perl-OSType/lib/Perl/OSType.pm			Perl::OSType
cpan/Perl-OSType/t/OSType.t			Perl::OSType
cpan/Pod-Checker/lib/Pod/Checker.pm
cpan/Pod-Checker/scripts/podchecker.PL
cpan/Pod-Checker/t/pod/contains_bad_pod.xr
cpan/Pod-Checker/t/pod/empty.xr
cpan/Pod-Checker/t/pod/podchkenc.t
cpan/Pod-Checker/t/pod/podchkenc.xr
cpan/Pod-Checker/t/pod/poderrs.t
cpan/Pod-Checker/t/pod/poderrs.xr
cpan/Pod-Checker/t/pod/selfcheck.t
cpan/Pod-Checker/t/pod/testcmp.pl
cpan/Pod-Checker/t/pod/testpchk.pl
cpan/Pod-Escapes/lib/Pod/Escapes.pm	Pod::Escapes
cpan/Pod-Escapes/t/01_about_verbose.t	test Pod::Escapes
cpan/Pod-Escapes/t/10_main.t		test Pod::Escapes
cpan/Pod-Escapes/t/15_name2charnum.t	test Pod::Escapes
cpan/podlators/lib/Pod/Man.pm			Convert POD data to *roff
cpan/podlators/lib/Pod/ParseLink.pm		Perl an L<> formatting code in POD text
cpan/podlators/lib/Pod/Text/Color.pm		Convert POD data to color ASCII text
cpan/podlators/lib/Pod/Text/Overstrike.pm	Convert POD data to formatted overstrike text
cpan/podlators/lib/Pod/Text.pm			Pod-Parser - convert POD data to formatted ASCII text
cpan/podlators/lib/Pod/Text/Termcap.pm		Convert POD data to ASCII text with format escapes
cpan/podlators/Makefile.PL			podlators Makefile.PL
cpan/podlators/scripts/pod2man.PL		Translator to turn pod into manpage
cpan/podlators/scripts/pod2text.PL		Translator to turn pod into text
cpan/podlators/t/data/basic.cap			podlators test			podlators test
cpan/podlators/t/data/basic.clr			podlators test
cpan/podlators/t/data/basic.man			podlators test
cpan/podlators/t/data/basic.ovr			podlators test
cpan/podlators/t/data/basic.pod			podlators test
cpan/podlators/t/data/basic.txt			podlators test
cpan/podlators/t/data/perl.conf			podlators test
cpan/podlators/t/data/snippets/man/cpp			podlators test
cpan/podlators/t/data/snippets/man/utf8-nonbreaking			podlators test
cpan/podlators/t/data/snippets/man/utf8-verbatim			podlators test
cpan/podlators/t/data/snippets/README			podlators test
cpan/podlators/t/data/snippets/text/cpp			podlators test
cpan/podlators/t/data/termcap			podlators test
cpan/podlators/t/docs/pod-spelling.t			podlators test
cpan/podlators/t/docs/pod.t			podlators test
cpan/podlators/t/docs/synopsis.t			podlators test
cpan/podlators/t/general/basic.t			podlators test
cpan/podlators/t/general/filehandle.t			podlators test
cpan/podlators/t/general/pod-parser.t			podlators test
cpan/podlators/t/lib/Test/Podlators.pm			podlators test
cpan/podlators/t/lib/Test/RRA/Config.pm			podlators test
cpan/podlators/t/lib/Test/RRA/ModuleVersion.pm		podlators test
cpan/podlators/t/lib/Test/RRA.pm			podlators test
cpan/podlators/t/man/basic.t			podlators test
cpan/podlators/t/man/devise-date.t			podlators test
cpan/podlators/t/man/devise-title.t			podlators test
cpan/podlators/t/man/empty.t			podlators test
cpan/podlators/t/man/heading.t			podlators test
cpan/podlators/t/man/no-encode.t		podlators test
cpan/podlators/t/man/options.t			podlators test
cpan/podlators/t/man/utf8-io.t			podlators test
cpan/podlators/t/parselink/basic.t			podlators test
cpan/podlators/t/style/minimum-version.t			podlators test
cpan/podlators/t/style/module-version.t			podlators test
cpan/podlators/t/style/strict.t			podlators test
cpan/podlators/t/text/basic.t			podlators test
cpan/podlators/t/text/color.t			podlators test
cpan/podlators/t/text/empty.t			podlators test
cpan/podlators/t/text/encoding.t			podlators test
cpan/podlators/t/text/options.t			podlators test
cpan/podlators/t/text/overstrike.t			podlators test
cpan/podlators/t/text/perlio.t			podlators test
cpan/podlators/t/text/termcap.t			podlators test
cpan/podlators/t/text/utf8.t			podlators test
cpan/Pod-Parser/lib/Pod/Find.pm			find POD documents in directory trees
cpan/Pod-Parser/lib/Pod/InputObjects.pm		Pod-Parser - define objects for input streams
cpan/Pod-Parser/lib/Pod/Parser.pm		Pod-Parser - define base class for parsing POD
cpan/Pod-Parser/lib/Pod/ParseUtils.pm		Pod-Parser - pod utility functions
cpan/Pod-Parser/lib/Pod/PlainText.pm		Convert POD data to formatted ASCII text
cpan/Pod-Parser/lib/Pod/Select.pm		Pod-Parser - select portions of POD docs
cpan/Pod-Parser/scripts/podselect.PL	Pod-Parser - Pod::Select::podselect() CLI
cpan/Pod-Parser/t/pod/contains_bad_pod.xr	Pod-Parser test file
cpan/Pod-Parser/t/pod/contains_pod.t		Pod-Parser test
cpan/Pod-Parser/t/pod/contains_pod.xr		Pod-Parser test file
cpan/Pod-Parser/t/pod/emptycmd.t		Test empty pod directives
cpan/Pod-Parser/t/pod/emptycmd.xr		Expected results for emptycmd.t
cpan/Pod-Parser/t/pod/empty.xr
cpan/Pod-Parser/t/pod/find.t			See if Pod::Find works
cpan/Pod-Parser/t/pod/for.t			Test =for directive
cpan/Pod-Parser/t/pod/for.xr			Expected results for for.t
cpan/Pod-Parser/t/pod/headings.t		Test =head directives
cpan/Pod-Parser/t/pod/headings.xr		Expected results for headings.t
cpan/Pod-Parser/t/pod/included.t		Test =include directive
cpan/Pod-Parser/t/pod/included.xr		Expected results for included.t
cpan/Pod-Parser/t/pod/include.t			Test =include directive
cpan/Pod-Parser/t/pod/include.xr		Expected results for include.t
cpan/Pod-Parser/t/pod/lref.t			Test L<...> sequences
cpan/Pod-Parser/t/pod/lref.xr			Expected results for lref.t
cpan/Pod-Parser/t/pod/multiline_items.t		Test multiline =items
cpan/Pod-Parser/t/pod/multiline_items.xr	Expected results for multiline_items.t
cpan/Pod-Parser/t/pod/nested_items.t		Test nested =items
cpan/Pod-Parser/t/pod/nested_items.xr		Expected results for nested_items.t
cpan/Pod-Parser/t/pod/nested_seqs.t		Test nested interior sequences
cpan/Pod-Parser/t/pod/nested_seqs.xr		Expected results for nested_seqs.t
cpan/Pod-Parser/t/pod/oneline_cmds.t		Test single paragraph ==cmds
cpan/Pod-Parser/t/pod/oneline_cmds.xr		Expected results for oneline_cmds.t
cpan/Pod-Parser/t/pod/podselect.t		Test Pod::Select
cpan/Pod-Parser/t/pod/podselect.xr		Expected results for podselect.t
cpan/Pod-Parser/t/pod/selfcheck.t
cpan/Pod-Parser/t/pod/special_seqs.t		Test "special" interior sequences
cpan/Pod-Parser/t/pod/special_seqs.xr		Expected results for special_seqs.t
cpan/Pod-Parser/t/pod/testcmp.pl		Module to compare output against expected results
cpan/Pod-Parser/t/pod/testp2pt.pl		Module to test Pod::PlainText for a given file
cpan/Pod-Parser/t/pod/testpchk.pl		Module to test Pod::Checker for a given file
cpan/Pod-Parser/t/pod/testpods/lib/Pod/Stuff.pm	Sample data for t/pod/find.t
cpan/Pod-Parser/t/pod/twice.t			Test Pod::Parser
cpan/Pod-Perldoc/corpus/no-head.pod		test file for Pod-Perldoc
cpan/Pod-Perldoc/corpus/perlfunc.pod		test file for Pod-Perldoc
cpan/Pod-Perldoc/corpus/utf8.pod		test file for Pod-Perldoc
cpan/Pod-Perldoc/lib/Pod/Perldoc/BaseTo.pm	utility module for perldoc
cpan/Pod-Perldoc/lib/Pod/Perldoc/GetOptsOO.pm	options parsing for perldoc
cpan/Pod-Perldoc/lib/Pod/Perldoc.pm		guts of the 'perldoc' utility
cpan/Pod-Perldoc/lib/Pod/Perldoc/ToANSI.pm	convert POD to ANSI text
cpan/Pod-Perldoc/lib/Pod/Perldoc/ToChecker.pm	let perldoc check POD for errors
cpan/Pod-Perldoc/lib/Pod/Perldoc/ToMan.pm	render POD as man pages
cpan/Pod-Perldoc/lib/Pod/Perldoc/ToNroff.pm	convert POD to nroff
cpan/Pod-Perldoc/lib/Pod/Perldoc/ToPod.pm	convert POD to POD
cpan/Pod-Perldoc/lib/Pod/Perldoc/ToRtf.pm	convert POD to RTF
cpan/Pod-Perldoc/lib/Pod/Perldoc/ToTerm.pm	convert POD to terminal output
cpan/Pod-Perldoc/lib/Pod/Perldoc/ToText.pm	convert POD to plain text
cpan/Pod-Perldoc/lib/Pod/Perldoc/ToTk.pm	convert POD via Tk::Pod
cpan/Pod-Perldoc/lib/Pod/Perldoc/ToXml.pm	convert POD to XML
cpan/Pod-Perldoc/Makefile.PL
cpan/Pod-Perldoc/perldoc.pod
cpan/Pod-Perldoc/t/load.t			test file for Pod-Perldoc
cpan/Pod-Perldoc/t/man/_get_columns.t		test file for Pod-Perldoc
cpan/Pod-Perldoc/t/pod.t			test file for Pod-Perldoc
cpan/Pod-Simple/lib/Pod/Simple/BlackBox.pm		Pod::Simple::BlackBox
cpan/Pod-Simple/lib/Pod/Simple/Checker.pm		check the Pod syntax of a document
cpan/Pod-Simple/lib/Pod/Simple/Debug.pm			put Pod::Simple into trace/debug mode
cpan/Pod-Simple/lib/Pod/Simple/DumpAsText.pm		dump Pod-parsing events as text
cpan/Pod-Simple/lib/Pod/Simple/DumpAsXML.pm		turn Pod into XML
cpan/Pod-Simple/lib/Pod/Simple/HTMLBatch.pm		convert several Pod files to several HTML files
cpan/Pod-Simple/lib/Pod/Simple/HTMLLegacy.pm		Pod::Simple::HTMLLegacy
cpan/Pod-Simple/lib/Pod/Simple/HTML.pm			convert Pod to HTML
cpan/Pod-Simple/lib/Pod/Simple/LinkSection.pm		represent "section" attributes of L codes
cpan/Pod-Simple/lib/Pod/Simple/Methody.pm		turn Pod::Simple events into method calls
cpan/Pod-Simple/lib/Pod/Simple.pm			Pod made simple
cpan/Pod-Simple/lib/Pod/Simple.pod			Pod for Pod::Simple
cpan/Pod-Simple/lib/Pod/Simple/Progress.pm		Pod::Simple::Progress
cpan/Pod-Simple/lib/Pod/Simple/PullParserEndToken.pm	end-tokens from Pod::Simple::PullParser
cpan/Pod-Simple/lib/Pod/Simple/PullParser.pm		a pull-parser interface to parsing Pod
cpan/Pod-Simple/lib/Pod/Simple/PullParserStartToken.pm	start-tokens from Pod::Simple::PullParser
cpan/Pod-Simple/lib/Pod/Simple/PullParserTextToken.pm	text-tokens from Pod::Simple::PullParser
cpan/Pod-Simple/lib/Pod/Simple/PullParserToken.pm	tokens from Pod::Simple::PullParser
cpan/Pod-Simple/lib/Pod/Simple/RTF.pm			format Pod as RTF
cpan/Pod-Simple/lib/Pod/Simple/Search.pm		find POD documents in directory trees
cpan/Pod-Simple/lib/Pod/Simple/SimpleTree.pm		parse Pod into a simple parse tree
cpan/Pod-Simple/lib/Pod/Simple/Subclassing.pod		write a formatter as a Pod::Simple subclass
cpan/Pod-Simple/lib/Pod/Simple/TextContent.pm		get the text content of Pod
cpan/Pod-Simple/lib/Pod/Simple/Text.pm			format Pod as plaintext
cpan/Pod-Simple/lib/Pod/Simple/TiedOutFH.pm		Pod::Simple::TiedOutFH
cpan/Pod-Simple/lib/Pod/Simple/TranscodeDumb.pm		Pod::Simple::TranscodeDumb
cpan/Pod-Simple/lib/Pod/Simple/Transcode.pm		Pod::Simple::Transcode
cpan/Pod-Simple/lib/Pod/Simple/TranscodeSmart.pm	Pod::Simple::TranscodeSmart
cpan/Pod-Simple/lib/Pod/Simple/XHTML.pm			turn Pod into XHTML
cpan/Pod-Simple/lib/Pod/Simple/XMLOutStream.pm		turn Pod into XML
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/00about.t				Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/20_skip.t				Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/accept01.t				Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/accept05.t				Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/ac_d.t				Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/ascii_order.pl
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/basic.t				Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/begin.t				Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/cbacks.t				Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/chunking.t				Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/closeys.t				Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/corpus/2202jp.txt			Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/corpus/2202jp.xml			Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/corpus/2202jpx.txt			Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/corpus/2202jpx.xml			Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/corpus/2202jpy.txt			Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/corpus/2202jpy.xml			Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/corpus/2202jpz.txt			Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/corpus/2202jpz.xml			Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/corpus2/fiqhakbar_iso6.txt		Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/corpus2/fiqhakbar_iso6.xml		Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/corpus2/polish_implicit_utf8.txt	Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/corpus2/polish_utf16be_bom.txt	Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/corpus2/polish_utf16le_bom.txt	Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/corpus2/polish_utf8_bom2.txt		Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/corpus2/polish_utf8_bom2.xml		Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/corpus2/polish_utf8_bom.txt		Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/corpus2/polish_utf8_bom.xml		Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/corpus2/README			Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/corpus/8859_7.pod			Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/corpus/8859_7.xml			Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/corpus/cp1256.txt			Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/corpus/cp1256.xml			Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/corpus/enc_char_directive.txt			Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/corpus/enc_char_directive.xml			Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/corpus/enc_char_wrong_directive.txt			Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/corpus/enc_char_wrong_directive.xml			Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/corpus/encwarn01.txt			Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/corpus/encwarn01.xml			Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/corpus/encwarn02.txt			Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/corpus/encwarn02.xml			Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/corpus/encwarn03.txt
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/corpus/encwarn03.xml
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/corpus/encwarn04.txt
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/corpus/encwarn04.xml
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/corpus/fet_cont.txt			Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/corpus/fet_cont.xml			Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/corpus/fet_dup.txt			Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/corpus/fet_dup.xml			Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/corpus/iso6.txt			Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/corpus/iso6.xml			Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/corpus/koi8r.txt			Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/corpus/koi8r.xml			Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/corpus/laozi38b.txt			Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/corpus/laozi38b.xml			Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/corpus/laozi38p.pod			Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/corpus/laozi38p.xml			Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/corpus/laozi38.txt			Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/corpus/laozi38.xml			Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/corpus/lat1frim.txt			Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/corpus/lat1frim.xml			Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/corpus/lat1fr.txt			Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/corpus/lat1fr.xml			Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/corpus/nonesuch.txt			Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/corpus/nonesuch.xml			Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/corpus/pasternak_cp1251.txt		Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/corpus/pasternak_cp1251.xml		Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/corpus/plain_explicit.txt		Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/corpus/plain_explicit.xml		Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/corpus/plain_latin1.txt		Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/corpus/plain_latin1.xml		Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/corpus/plain.txt			Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/corpus/plain_utf8.txt			Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/corpus/plain_utf8.xml			Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/corpus/plain.xml			Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/corpus/polish_utf8.txt		Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/corpus/polish_utf8.xml		Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/corpus/s2763_sjis.txt			Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/corpus/s2763_sjis.xml			Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/corpus.t				Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/corpus/thai_iso11.txt			Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/corpus/thai_iso11.xml			Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/emptylists.t				Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/enc-chars.t
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/encod01.t				Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/encod02.t				Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/encod03.t				Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/encod04.t
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/end_over.t				Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/eol2.t				Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/eol.t					Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/fake-closers.t			Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/fcodes_e.t				Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/fcodes_l.t				Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/fcodes_s.t				Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/fcodes.t				Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/fornot.t				Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/for.t					Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/heads.t				Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/html01.t				Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/html02.t				Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/html03.t				Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/htmlbat.t				Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/items02.t				Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/items.t				Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/itemstar.t				Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/junk1o.txt				Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/junk1.pod				Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/junk2o.txt				Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/junk2.pod				Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/linkclas.t				Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/output.t				Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/perlcygo.txt				Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/perlcyg.pod				Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/perlfaqo.txt				Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/perlfaq.pod				Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/perlvaro.txt				Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/perlvar.pod				Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/puller.t				Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/pulltitl.t				Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/reinit.t				Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/render.t				Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/search05.t				Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/search10.t				Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/search12.t				Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/search20.t				Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/search22.t				Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/search25.t				Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/search26.t				Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/search27.t				Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/search28.t				Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/search29.t				Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/search50.t				Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/stree.t				Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/strpvbtm.t				Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/testlib1/Blorm.pm			Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/testlib1/hinkhonk/Glunk.pod		Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/testlib1/hinkhonk/readme.txt		Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/testlib1/hinkhonk/Vliff.pm		Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/testlib1/pod/perlflif.pod		Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/testlib1/pod/perlthng.pod		Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/testlib1/squaa/Glunk.pod		Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/testlib1/squaa.pm			Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/testlib1/squaa/Vliff.pm		Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/testlib1/zikzik.pod			Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/testlib1/Zonk/Fiddle.txt		Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/testlib1/Zonk/Pronk.pm		Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/testlib1/Zonk/Veng.pm			Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/testlib2/hinkhonk/Glunk.pod		Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/testlib2/hinkhonk/readme.txt		Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/testlib2/hinkhonk/Vliff.pm		Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/testlib2/pod/perlthng.pod		Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/testlib2/pod/perlzuk.pod		Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/testlib2/squaa/Vliff.pm		Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/testlib2/squaa/Wowo.pod		Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/testlib2/Suzzle.pm			Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/testlib3/squaa/Vliff.pm		Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/tiedfh.t				Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/verbatim.t				Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/verb_fmt.t				Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/whine.t
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/xhtml01.t				Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/xhtml05.t				Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/xhtml10.t				Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/xhtml15.t				Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/xhtml20.t				Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/xhtml-bkb.t
cpan/Pod-Simple/t/x_nixer.t				Pod::Simple test file
cpan/Pod-Usage/lib/Pod/Usage.pm
cpan/Pod-Usage/scripts/pod2usage.PL
cpan/Pod-Usage/t/pod/headwithmarkup.pl
cpan/Pod-Usage/t/pod/headwithmarkup.t
cpan/Pod-Usage/t/pod/p2u_data.pl
cpan/Pod-Usage/t/pod/pod2usage2.t
cpan/Pod-Usage/t/pod/pod2usage.t
cpan/Pod-Usage/t/pod/pod2usage.xr
cpan/Pod-Usage/t/pod/selectheaders.pl
cpan/Pod-Usage/t/pod/selectheaders.t
cpan/Pod-Usage/t/pod/selectsections.pl
cpan/Pod-Usage/t/pod/selectsections.t
cpan/Pod-Usage/t/pod/testcmp.pl
cpan/Pod-Usage/t/pod/testp2pt.pl
cpan/Pod-Usage/t/pod/usage2.pod
cpan/Pod-Usage/t/pod/usage.pod
cpan/Scalar-List-Utils/lib/List/Util.pm		List::Util
cpan/Scalar-List-Utils/lib/List/Util/XS.pm	List::Util
cpan/Scalar-List-Utils/lib/Scalar/Util.pm	Scalar::Util
cpan/Scalar-List-Utils/lib/Sub/Util.pm
cpan/Scalar-List-Utils/ListUtil.xs		Util extension
cpan/Scalar-List-Utils/Makefile.PL		Util extension
cpan/Scalar-List-Utils/multicall.h		Util extension
cpan/Scalar-List-Utils/t/00version.t		Scalar::Util
cpan/Scalar-List-Utils/t/any-all.t		List::Util
cpan/Scalar-List-Utils/t/blessed.t		Scalar::Util
cpan/Scalar-List-Utils/t/dualvar.t		Scalar::Util
cpan/Scalar-List-Utils/t/first.t		List::Util
cpan/Scalar-List-Utils/t/getmagic-once.t
cpan/Scalar-List-Utils/t/isvstring.t		Scalar::Util
cpan/Scalar-List-Utils/t/lln.t			Scalar::Util
cpan/Scalar-List-Utils/t/maxstr.t		List::Util
cpan/Scalar-List-Utils/t/max.t			List::Util
cpan/Scalar-List-Utils/t/minstr.t		List::Util
cpan/Scalar-List-Utils/t/min.t			List::Util
cpan/Scalar-List-Utils/t/openhan.t		Scalar::Util
cpan/Scalar-List-Utils/t/pair.t
cpan/Scalar-List-Utils/t/product.t		List::Util
cpan/Scalar-List-Utils/t/prototype.t
cpan/Scalar-List-Utils/t/readonly.t		Scalar::Util
cpan/Scalar-List-Utils/t/reduce.t		List::Util
cpan/Scalar-List-Utils/t/refaddr.t		Scalar::Util
cpan/Scalar-List-Utils/t/reftype.t		Scalar::Util
cpan/Scalar-List-Utils/t/scalarutil-proto.t
cpan/Scalar-List-Utils/t/shuffle.t		List::Util
cpan/Scalar-List-Utils/t/stack-corruption.t	List::Util
cpan/Scalar-List-Utils/t/subname.t
cpan/Scalar-List-Utils/t/sum0.t
cpan/Scalar-List-Utils/t/sum.t			List::Util
cpan/Scalar-List-Utils/t/tainted.t		Scalar::Util
cpan/Scalar-List-Utils/t/weak.t			Scalar::Util
cpan/Socket/Makefile.PL			Socket extension makefile writer
cpan/Socket/Socket.pm			Socket extension Perl module
cpan/Socket/Socket.xs			Socket extension external subroutines
cpan/Socket/t/getaddrinfo.t		See if Socket::getaddrinfo works
cpan/Socket/t/getnameinfo.t		See if Socket::getnameinfo works
cpan/Socket/t/ip_mreq.t			See if (un)pack_ip_mreq work
cpan/Socket/t/ipv6_mreq.t		See if (un)pack_ipv6_mreq work
cpan/Socket/t/sockaddr.t
cpan/Socket/t/socketpair.t		See if socketpair works
cpan/Socket/t/Socket.t			See if Socket works
cpan/Socket/typemap
cpan/Sys-Syslog/fallback/const-c.inc	Sys::Syslog constants fallback file
cpan/Sys-Syslog/fallback/const-xs.inc	Sys::Syslog constants fallback file
cpan/Sys-Syslog/fallback/syslog.h	Sys::Syslog header fallback file
cpan/Sys-Syslog/Makefile.PL		Sys::Syslog extension makefile writer
cpan/Sys-Syslog/Syslog.pm		Sys::Syslog extension Perl module
cpan/Sys-Syslog/Syslog.xs		Sys::Syslog extension external subroutines
cpan/Sys-Syslog/t/00-load.t		test for Sys::Syslog
cpan/Sys-Syslog/t/constants.t		test for Sys::Syslog
cpan/Sys-Syslog/t/facilities-routing.t	test for Sys::Syslog
cpan/Sys-Syslog/t/syslog.t		See if Sys::Syslog works
cpan/Sys-Syslog/win32/compile.pl	Sys::Syslog extension Win32 related file
cpan/Sys-Syslog/win32/PerlLog_dll.uu	Sys::Syslog extension Win32 related file
cpan/Sys-Syslog/win32/PerlLog.mc	Sys::Syslog extension Win32 related file
cpan/Sys-Syslog/win32/PerlLog_RES.uu	Sys::Syslog extension Win32 related file
cpan/Sys-Syslog/win32/Win32.pm		Sys::Syslog extension Win32 related file
cpan/Term-ANSIColor/lib/Term/ANSIColor.pm
cpan/Term-ANSIColor/t/lib/Test/RRA/Config.pm
cpan/Term-ANSIColor/t/lib/Test/RRA.pm
cpan/Term-ANSIColor/t/module/aliases-func.t
cpan/Term-ANSIColor/t/module/basic256.t
cpan/Term-ANSIColor/t/module/basic.t
cpan/Term-ANSIColor/t/module/eval.t
cpan/Term-ANSIColor/t/module/stringify.t
cpan/Term-ANSIColor/t/taint/basic.t
cpan/Term-Cap/Cap.pm			Perl module supporting termcap usage
cpan/Term-Cap/test.pl			See if Term::Cap works
cpan/Term-ReadKey/Changes			Term::ReadKey
cpan/Term-ReadKey/Configure.pm			Term::ReadKey
cpan/Term-ReadKey/example/test.pl		Term::ReadKey
cpan/Term-ReadKey/genchars.pl			Term::ReadKey
cpan/Term-ReadKey/Makefile.PL			Term::ReadKey
cpan/Term-ReadKey/ppport.h			Term::ReadKey
cpan/Term-ReadKey/ReadKey.pm			Term::ReadKey
cpan/Term-ReadKey/ReadKey.xs			Term::ReadKey
cpan/Term-ReadKey/README			Term::ReadKey
cpan/Term-ReadKey/t/01_basic.t			Term::ReadKey
cpan/Term-ReadKey/t/02_terminal_functions.t	Term::ReadKey
cpan/Test-Harness/bin/prove				The prove harness utility
cpan/Test-Harness/lib/App/Prove.pm			Gubbins for the prove utility
cpan/Test-Harness/lib/App/Prove/State.pm		Gubbins for the prove utility
cpan/Test-Harness/lib/App/Prove/State/Result.pm		Gubbins for the prove utility
cpan/Test-Harness/lib/App/Prove/State/Result/Test.pm	Gubbins for the prove utility
cpan/Test-Harness/lib/TAP/Base.pm			A parser for Test Anything Protocol
cpan/Test-Harness/lib/TAP/Formatter/Base.pm		A parser for Test Anything Protocol
cpan/Test-Harness/lib/TAP/Formatter/Color.pm		A parser for Test Anything Protocol
cpan/Test-Harness/lib/TAP/Formatter/Console/ParallelSession.pm	A parser for Test Anything Protocol
cpan/Test-Harness/lib/TAP/Formatter/Console.pm		A parser for Test Anything Protocol
cpan/Test-Harness/lib/TAP/Formatter/Console/Session.pm	A parser for Test Anything Protocol
cpan/Test-Harness/lib/TAP/Formatter/File.pm		A parser for Test Anything Protocol
cpan/Test-Harness/lib/TAP/Formatter/File/Session.pm	A parser for Test Anything Protocol
cpan/Test-Harness/lib/TAP/Formatter/Session.pm		A parser for Test Anything Protocol
cpan/Test-Harness/lib/TAP/Harness/Beyond.pod
cpan/Test-Harness/lib/TAP/Harness/Env.pm		A parser for Test Anything Protocol
cpan/Test-Harness/lib/TAP/Harness.pm			A parser for Test Anything Protocol
cpan/Test-Harness/lib/TAP/Object.pm			A parser for Test Anything Protocol
cpan/Test-Harness/lib/TAP/Parser/Aggregator.pm		A parser for Test Anything Protocol
cpan/Test-Harness/lib/TAP/Parser/Grammar.pm		A parser for Test Anything Protocol
cpan/Test-Harness/lib/TAP/Parser/Iterator/Array.pm	A parser for Test Anything Protocol
cpan/Test-Harness/lib/TAP/Parser/IteratorFactory.pm	A parser for Test Anything Protocol
cpan/Test-Harness/lib/TAP/Parser/Iterator.pm		A parser for Test Anything Protocol
cpan/Test-Harness/lib/TAP/Parser/Iterator/Process.pm	A parser for Test Anything Protocol
cpan/Test-Harness/lib/TAP/Parser/Iterator/Stream.pm	A parser for Test Anything Protocol
cpan/Test-Harness/lib/TAP/Parser/Multiplexer.pm		A parser for Test Anything Protocol
cpan/Test-Harness/lib/TAP/Parser.pm			A parser for Test Anything Protocol
cpan/Test-Harness/lib/TAP/Parser/Result/Bailout.pm	A parser for Test Anything Protocol
cpan/Test-Harness/lib/TAP/Parser/Result/Comment.pm	A parser for Test Anything Protocol
cpan/Test-Harness/lib/TAP/Parser/ResultFactory.pm	A parser for Test Anything Protocol
cpan/Test-Harness/lib/TAP/Parser/Result/Plan.pm		A parser for Test Anything Protocol
cpan/Test-Harness/lib/TAP/Parser/Result.pm		A parser for Test Anything Protocol
cpan/Test-Harness/lib/TAP/Parser/Result/Pragma.pm	A parser for Test Anything Protocol
cpan/Test-Harness/lib/TAP/Parser/Result/Test.pm		A parser for Test Anything Protocol
cpan/Test-Harness/lib/TAP/Parser/Result/Unknown.pm	A parser for Test Anything Protocol
cpan/Test-Harness/lib/TAP/Parser/Result/Version.pm	A parser for Test Anything Protocol
cpan/Test-Harness/lib/TAP/Parser/Result/YAML.pm		A parser for Test Anything Protocol
cpan/Test-Harness/lib/TAP/Parser/Scheduler/Job.pm	A parser for Test Anything Protocol
cpan/Test-Harness/lib/TAP/Parser/Scheduler.pm		A parser for Test Anything Protocol
cpan/Test-Harness/lib/TAP/Parser/Scheduler/Spinner.pm	A parser for Test Anything Protocol
cpan/Test-Harness/lib/TAP/Parser/SourceHandler/Executable.pm
cpan/Test-Harness/lib/TAP/Parser/SourceHandler/File.pm
cpan/Test-Harness/lib/TAP/Parser/SourceHandler/Handle.pm
cpan/Test-Harness/lib/TAP/Parser/SourceHandler/Perl.pm
cpan/Test-Harness/lib/TAP/Parser/SourceHandler.pm		A parser for Test Anything Protocol
cpan/Test-Harness/lib/TAP/Parser/SourceHandler/RawTAP.pm
cpan/Test-Harness/lib/TAP/Parser/Source.pm		A parser for Test Anything Protocol
cpan/Test-Harness/lib/TAP/Parser/YAMLish/Reader.pm	A parser for Test Anything Protocol
cpan/Test-Harness/lib/TAP/Parser/YAMLish/Writer.pm	A parser for Test Anything Protocol
cpan/Test-Harness/lib/Test/Harness.pm			A test harness
cpan/Test-Harness/t/aggregator.t			Test::Harness test
cpan/Test-Harness/t/bailout.t				Test::Harness test
cpan/Test-Harness/t/base.t				Test::Harness test
cpan/Test-Harness/t/callbacks.t				Test::Harness test
cpan/Test-Harness/t/compat/env_opts.t			Test::Harness test
cpan/Test-Harness/t/compat/env.t			Test::Harness test
cpan/Test-Harness/t/compat/failure.t			Test::Harness test
cpan/Test-Harness/t/compat/inc-propagation.t		Test::Harness test
cpan/Test-Harness/t/compat/inc_taint.t			Test::Harness test
cpan/Test-Harness/t/compat/nonumbers.t			Test::Harness test
cpan/Test-Harness/t/compat/regression.t			Test::Harness test
cpan/Test-Harness/t/compat/subclass.t				Test::Harness test
cpan/Test-Harness/t/compat/switches.t			Test::Harness test
cpan/Test-Harness/t/compat/test-harness-compat.t	Test::Harness test
cpan/Test-Harness/t/compat/version.t			Test::Harness test
cpan/Test-Harness/t/console.t				Test::Harness test
cpan/Test-Harness/t/data/catme.1			Test data for Test::Harness
cpan/Test-Harness/t/data/proverc			Test data for Test::Harness
cpan/Test-Harness/t/data/sample.yml			Test data for Test::Harness
cpan/Test-Harness/t/errors.t				Test::Harness test
cpan/Test-Harness/t/file.t				Test::Harness test
cpan/Test-Harness/t/glob-to-regexp.t			Test::Harness test
cpan/Test-Harness/t/grammar.t				Test::Harness test
cpan/Test-Harness/t/harness-bailout.t			Test::Harness test
cpan/Test-Harness/t/harness-subclass.t			Test::Harness test
cpan/Test-Harness/t/harness.t				Test::Harness test
cpan/Test-Harness/t/iterator_factory.t				Test::Harness test
cpan/Test-Harness/t/iterators.t				Test::Harness test
cpan/Test-Harness/t/lib/App/Prove/Plugin/Dummy2.pm	Module for testing Test::Harness
cpan/Test-Harness/t/lib/App/Prove/Plugin/Dummy.pm	Module for testing Test::Harness
cpan/Test-Harness/t/lib/Dev/Null.pm			Module for testing Test::Harness
cpan/Test-Harness/t/lib/EmptyParser.pm			Module for testing Test::Harness
cpan/Test-Harness/t/lib/IO/c55Capture.pm		Module for testing Test::Harness
cpan/Test-Harness/t/lib/MyCustom.pm			Module for testing Test::Harness
cpan/Test-Harness/t/lib/MyFileSourceHandler.pm				Test::Harness test
cpan/Test-Harness/t/lib/MyGrammar.pm			Module for testing Test::Harness
cpan/Test-Harness/t/lib/MyIterator.pm			Module for testing Test::Harness
cpan/Test-Harness/t/lib/MyPerlSourceHandler.pm				Test::Harness test
cpan/Test-Harness/t/lib/MyResultFactory.pm		Module for testing Test::Harness
cpan/Test-Harness/t/lib/MyResult.pm			Module for testing Test::Harness
cpan/Test-Harness/t/lib/MySourceHandler.pm				Test::Harness test
cpan/Test-Harness/t/lib/NoFork.pm			Module for testing Test::Harness
cpan/Test-Harness/t/lib/NOP.pm				Module for testing Test::Harness
cpan/Test-Harness/t/lib/TAP/Harness/TestSubclass.pm
cpan/Test-Harness/t/lib/TAP/Parser/SubclassTest.pm	Module for testing Test::Harness
cpan/Test-Harness/t/multiplexer.t			Test::Harness test
cpan/Test-Harness/t/nested.t				Test::Harness test
cpan/Test-Harness/t/nofork-mux.t			Test::Harness test
cpan/Test-Harness/t/nofork.t				Test::Harness test
cpan/Test-Harness/t/object.t				Test::Harness test
cpan/Test-Harness/t/parser-config.t			Test::Harness test
cpan/Test-Harness/t/parser-subclass.t			Test::Harness test
cpan/Test-Harness/t/parse.t				Test::Harness test
cpan/Test-Harness/t/perl5lib.t				Test::Harness test
cpan/Test-Harness/t/premature-bailout.t			Test::Harness test
cpan/Test-Harness/t/process.t				Test::Harness test
cpan/Test-Harness/t/proverc/emptyexec			Test data for Test::Harness
cpan/Test-Harness/t/proverc.t				Test::Harness test
cpan/Test-Harness/t/proverun.t				Test::Harness test
cpan/Test-Harness/t/prove.t				Test::Harness test
cpan/Test-Harness/t/proveversion.t				Test::Harness test
cpan/Test-Harness/t/regression.t			Test::Harness test
cpan/Test-Harness/t/results.t				Test::Harness test
cpan/Test-Harness/t/sample-tests/bailout		Test data for Test::Harness
cpan/Test-Harness/t/sample-tests/bignum			Test data for Test::Harness
cpan/Test-Harness/t/sample-tests/bignum_many		Test data for Test::Harness
cpan/Test-Harness/t/sample-tests/combined		Test data for Test::Harness
cpan/Test-Harness/t/sample-tests/combined_compat	Test data for Test::Harness
cpan/Test-Harness/t/sample-tests/delayed		Test data for Test::Harness
cpan/Test-Harness/t/sample-tests/descriptive		Test data for Test::Harness
cpan/Test-Harness/t/sample-tests/descriptive_trailing	Test data for Test::Harness
cpan/Test-Harness/t/sample-tests/die			Test data for Test::Harness
cpan/Test-Harness/t/sample-tests/die_head_end		Test data for Test::Harness
cpan/Test-Harness/t/sample-tests/die_last_minute	Test data for Test::Harness
cpan/Test-Harness/t/sample-tests/die_unfinished		Test data for Test::Harness
cpan/Test-Harness/t/sample-tests/duplicates		Test data for Test::Harness
cpan/Test-Harness/t/sample-tests/echo			Test data for Test::Harness
cpan/Test-Harness/t/sample-tests/empty			Test data for Test::Harness
cpan/Test-Harness/t/sample-tests/escape_eol		Test data for Test::Harness
cpan/Test-Harness/t/sample-tests/escape_hash		Test data for Test::Harness
cpan/Test-Harness/t/sample-tests/head_end		Test data for Test::Harness
cpan/Test-Harness/t/sample-tests/head_fail		Test data for Test::Harness
cpan/Test-Harness/t/sample-tests/inc_taint		Test data for Test::Harness
cpan/Test-Harness/t/sample-tests/junk_before_plan	Test data for Test::Harness
cpan/Test-Harness/t/sample-tests/lone_not_bug		Test data for Test::Harness
cpan/Test-Harness/t/sample-tests/no_nums		Test data for Test::Harness
cpan/Test-Harness/t/sample-tests/no_output		Test data for Test::Harness
cpan/Test-Harness/t/sample-tests/out_err_mix		Test data for Test::Harness
cpan/Test-Harness/t/sample-tests/out_of_order		Test data for Test::Harness
cpan/Test-Harness/t/sample-tests/schwern		Test data for Test::Harness
cpan/Test-Harness/t/sample-tests/schwern-todo-quiet	Test data for Test::Harness
cpan/Test-Harness/t/sample-tests/segfault		Test data for Test::Harness
cpan/Test-Harness/t/sample-tests/sequence_misparse	Test data for Test::Harness
cpan/Test-Harness/t/sample-tests/shbang_misparse	Test data for Test::Harness
cpan/Test-Harness/t/sample-tests/simple			Test data for Test::Harness
cpan/Test-Harness/t/sample-tests/simple_fail		Test data for Test::Harness
cpan/Test-Harness/t/sample-tests/simple_yaml		Test data for Test::Harness
cpan/Test-Harness/t/sample-tests/simple_yaml_missing_version13		Test data for Test::Harness
cpan/Test-Harness/t/sample-tests/skip			Test data for Test::Harness
cpan/Test-Harness/t/sample-tests/skipall		Test data for Test::Harness
cpan/Test-Harness/t/sample-tests/skipall_nomsg		Test data for Test::Harness
cpan/Test-Harness/t/sample-tests/skipall_v13		Test data for Test::Harness
cpan/Test-Harness/t/sample-tests/skip_nomsg		Test data for Test::Harness
cpan/Test-Harness/t/sample-tests/space_after_plan	Test data for Test::Harness
cpan/Test-Harness/t/sample-tests/stdout_stderr		Test data for Test::Harness
cpan/Test-Harness/t/sample-tests/strict			Test data for Test::Harness
cpan/Test-Harness/t/sample-tests/switches		Test data for Test::Harness
cpan/Test-Harness/t/sample-tests/taint			Test data for Test::Harness
cpan/Test-Harness/t/sample-tests/taint_warn		Test data for Test::Harness
cpan/Test-Harness/t/sample-tests/todo			Test data for Test::Harness
cpan/Test-Harness/t/sample-tests/todo_inline		Test data for Test::Harness
cpan/Test-Harness/t/sample-tests/todo_misparse		Test data for Test::Harness
cpan/Test-Harness/t/sample-tests/too_many		Test data for Test::Harness
cpan/Test-Harness/t/sample-tests/version_good		Test data for Test::Harness
cpan/Test-Harness/t/sample-tests/version_late		Test data for Test::Harness
cpan/Test-Harness/t/sample-tests/version_old		Test data for Test::Harness
cpan/Test-Harness/t/sample-tests/vms_nit		Test data for Test::Harness
cpan/Test-Harness/t/sample-tests/with_comments		Test data for Test::Harness
cpan/Test-Harness/t/sample-tests/yaml_late_plan		Test data for Test::Harness
cpan/Test-Harness/t/sample-tests/zero_valid		Test data for Test::Harness
cpan/Test-Harness/t/scheduler.t				Test::Harness test
cpan/Test-Harness/t/source_handler.t				Test::Harness test
cpan/Test-Harness/t/source.t				Test::Harness test
cpan/Test-Harness/t/source_tests/harness		Test data for Test::Harness
cpan/Test-Harness/t/source_tests/harness_badtap		Test data for Test::Harness
cpan/Test-Harness/t/source_tests/harness_complain	Test data for Test::Harness
cpan/Test-Harness/t/source_tests/harness_directives	Test data for Test::Harness
cpan/Test-Harness/t/source_tests/harness_failure	Test data for Test::Harness
cpan/Test-Harness/t/source_tests/psql.bat				Test::Harness test
cpan/Test-Harness/t/source_tests/source			Test data for Test::Harness
cpan/Test-Harness/t/source_tests/source.1				Test::Harness test
cpan/Test-Harness/t/source_tests/source_args.sh				Test::Harness test
cpan/Test-Harness/t/source_tests/source.bat				Test::Harness test
cpan/Test-Harness/t/source_tests/source.pl				Test::Harness test
cpan/Test-Harness/t/source_tests/source.sh				Test::Harness test
cpan/Test-Harness/t/source_tests/source.t				Test::Harness test
cpan/Test-Harness/t/source_tests/source.tap				Test::Harness test
cpan/Test-Harness/t/spool.t				Test::Harness test
cpan/Test-Harness/t/state_results.t			Test::Harness test
cpan/Test-Harness/t/state.t				Test::Harness test
cpan/Test-Harness/t/streams.t				Test::Harness test
cpan/Test-Harness/t/subclass_tests/non_perl_source	Test data for Test::Harness
cpan/Test-Harness/t/subclass_tests/perl_source		Test data for Test::Harness
cpan/Test-Harness/t/taint.t				Test::Harness test
cpan/Test-Harness/t/testargs.t				Test::Harness test
cpan/Test-Harness/t/unicode.t				Test::Harness test
cpan/Test-Harness/t/yamlish-output.t			Test::Harness test
cpan/Test-Harness/t/yamlish.t				Test::Harness test
cpan/Test-Harness/t/yamlish-writer.t			Test::Harness test
cpan/Test-Simple/lib/ok.pm
cpan/Test-Simple/lib/Test/Builder/IO/Scalar.pm
cpan/Test-Simple/lib/Test/Builder/Module.pm
cpan/Test-Simple/lib/Test/Builder.pm
cpan/Test-Simple/lib/Test/Builder/Tester/Color.pm
cpan/Test-Simple/lib/Test/Builder/Tester.pm
cpan/Test-Simple/lib/Test/More.pm
cpan/Test-Simple/lib/Test/Simple.pm
cpan/Test-Simple/lib/Test/Tester/Capture.pm
cpan/Test-Simple/lib/Test/Tester/CaptureRunner.pm
cpan/Test-Simple/lib/Test/Tester/Delegate.pm
cpan/Test-Simple/lib/Test/Tester.pm
cpan/Test-Simple/lib/Test/Tutorial.pod
cpan/Test-Simple/lib/Test/use/ok.pm
cpan/Test-Simple/t/00test_harness_check.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/01-basic.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/478-cmp_ok_hash.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/auto.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/bad_plan.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/bail_out.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/BEGIN_require_ok.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/BEGIN_use_ok.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/buffer.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/Builder/Builder.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/Builder/carp.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/Builder/create.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/Builder/current_test.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/Builder/current_test_without_plan.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/Builder/details.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/Builder/done_testing_double.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/Builder/done_testing_plan_mismatch.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/Builder/done_testing.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/Builder/done_testing_with_no_plan.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/Builder/done_testing_with_number.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/Builder/done_testing_with_plan.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/Builder/fork_with_new_stdout.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/Builder/has_plan2.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/Builder/has_plan.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/Builder/is_fh.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/Builder/is_passing.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/Builder/maybe_regex.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/Builder/no_diag.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/Builder/no_ending.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/Builder/no_header.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/Builder/no_plan_at_all.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/Builder/ok_obj.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/Builder/output.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/Builder/reset_outputs.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/Builder/reset.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/Builder/try.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/capture.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/c_flag.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/check_tests.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/circular_data.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/cmp_ok.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/dependents.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/depth.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/diag.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/died.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/dont_overwrite_die_handler.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/eq_set.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/exit.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/explain.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/extra_one.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/extra.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/fail-like.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/fail-more.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/fail_one.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/fail.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/filehandles.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/fork.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/harness_active.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/import.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/is_deeply_dne_bug.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/is_deeply_fail.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/is_deeply_with_threads.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/lib/Dev/Null.pm
cpan/Test-Simple/t/lib/Dummy.pm
cpan/Test-Simple/t/lib/MyOverload.pm
cpan/Test-Simple/t/lib/NoExporter.pm
cpan/Test-Simple/t/lib/SigDie.pm
cpan/Test-Simple/t/lib/Test/Builder/NoOutput.pm
cpan/Test-Simple/t/lib/Test/Simple/Catch.pm
cpan/Test-Simple/t/lib/Test/Simple/sample_tests/death_in_eval.plx
cpan/Test-Simple/t/lib/Test/Simple/sample_tests/death.plx
cpan/Test-Simple/t/lib/Test/Simple/sample_tests/death_with_handler.plx
cpan/Test-Simple/t/lib/Test/Simple/sample_tests/exit.plx
cpan/Test-Simple/t/lib/Test/Simple/sample_tests/extras.plx
cpan/Test-Simple/t/lib/Test/Simple/sample_tests/five_fail.plx
cpan/Test-Simple/t/lib/Test/Simple/sample_tests/last_minute_death.plx
cpan/Test-Simple/t/lib/Test/Simple/sample_tests/missing_done_testing.plx
cpan/Test-Simple/t/lib/Test/Simple/sample_tests/one_fail.plx
cpan/Test-Simple/t/lib/Test/Simple/sample_tests/one_fail_without_plan.plx
cpan/Test-Simple/t/lib/Test/Simple/sample_tests/pre_plan_death.plx
cpan/Test-Simple/t/lib/Test/Simple/sample_tests/require.plx
cpan/Test-Simple/t/lib/Test/Simple/sample_tests/success.plx
cpan/Test-Simple/t/lib/Test/Simple/sample_tests/too_few_fail.plx
cpan/Test-Simple/t/lib/Test/Simple/sample_tests/too_few.plx
cpan/Test-Simple/t/lib/Test/Simple/sample_tests/two_fail.plx
cpan/Test-Simple/t/lib/TieOut.pm
cpan/Test-Simple/t/missing.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/More.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/MyTest.pm
cpan/Test-Simple/t/new_ok.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/no_plan.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/no_tests.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/note.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/overload.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/overload_threads.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/plan_bad.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/plan_is_noplan.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/plan_no_plan.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/plan_shouldnt_import.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/plan_skip_all.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/plan.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/require_ok.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/run_test.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/Simple/load.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/simple.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/skipall.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/skip.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/SmallTest.pm
cpan/Test-Simple/t/subtest/args.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/subtest/bail_out.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/subtest/basic.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/subtest/die.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/subtest/do.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/subtest/exceptions.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/subtest/for_do_t.test
cpan/Test-Simple/t/subtest/fork.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/subtest/implicit_done.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/subtest/line_numbers.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/subtest/plan.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/subtest/predicate.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/subtest/singleton.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/subtest/threads.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/subtest/todo.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/subtest/wstat.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/tbm_doesnt_set_exported_to.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/Tester/tbt_01basic.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/Tester/tbt_02fhrestore.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/Tester/tbt_03die.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/Tester/tbt_04line_num.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/Tester/tbt_05faildiag.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/Tester/tbt_06errormess.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/Tester/tbt_07args.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/Tester/tbt_08subtest.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/Tester/tbt_09do_script.pl
cpan/Test-Simple/t/Tester/tbt_09do.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/threads.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/thread_taint.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/todo.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/undef.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/useing.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/use_ok.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/utf8.t
cpan/Test-Simple/t/versions.t
cpan/Text-Balanced/lib/Text/Balanced.pm	Text::Balanced
cpan/Text-Balanced/t/01_compile.t	See if Text::Balanced works
cpan/Text-Balanced/t/02_extbrk.t	See if Text::Balanced works
cpan/Text-Balanced/t/03_extcbk.t	See if Text::Balanced works
cpan/Text-Balanced/t/04_extdel.t	See if Text::Balanced works
cpan/Text-Balanced/t/05_extmul.t	See if Text::Balanced works
cpan/Text-Balanced/t/06_extqlk.t	See if Text::Balanced works
cpan/Text-Balanced/t/07_exttag.t	See if Text::Balanced works
cpan/Text-Balanced/t/08_extvar.t	See if Text::Balanced works
cpan/Text-Balanced/t/09_gentag.t	See if Text::Balanced works
cpan/Text-ParseWords/lib/Text/ParseWords.pm	Perl module to split words on arbitrary delimiter
cpan/Text-ParseWords/t/ParseWords.t		See if Text::ParseWords works
cpan/Text-ParseWords/t/taint.t			See if Text::ParseWords works with tainting
cpan/Text-Tabs/lib/Text/Tabs.pm		Do expand and unexpand
cpan/Text-Tabs/lib/Text/Wrap.pm		Paragraph formatter
cpan/Text-Tabs/t/37000.t		See if Text::Tabs is working
cpan/Text-Tabs/t/39548.t		See if Text::Tabs is working
cpan/Text-Tabs/t/79766.t		See if Text::Tabs is working
cpan/Text-Tabs/t/belg4mit.t		See if Text::Tabs is working
cpan/Text-Tabs/t/dandv.t		See if Text::Tabs is working
cpan/Text-Tabs/t/fill.t			See if Text::Wrap::fill works
cpan/Text-Tabs/t/Jacobson2.t		See if Text::Tabs is working
cpan/Text-Tabs/t/Jacobson.t		See if Text::Tabs is working
cpan/Text-Tabs/t/Jochen.t		See if Text::Tabs is working
cpan/Text-Tabs/t/sep2.t			See if Text::Tabs is working
cpan/Text-Tabs/t/sep.t			See if Text::Tabs is working
cpan/Text-Tabs/t/Tabs-ElCid.t		See if Text::Tabs works
cpan/Text-Tabs/t/tabs.t			See if Text::Tabs works
cpan/Text-Tabs/t/Wrap-JLB.t		See if Text::Wrap::wrap works
cpan/Text-Tabs/t/wrap_separator2.t	See if Text::Wrap::wrap works
cpan/Text-Tabs/t/wrap.t			See if Text::Wrap::wrap works
cpan/Tie-RefHash/lib/Tie/RefHash.pm		Base class for tied hashes with references as keys
cpan/Tie-RefHash/t/rebless.t	Test for Tie::RefHash with rebless
cpan/Tie-RefHash/t/refhash.t	Test for Tie::RefHash and Tie::RefHash::Nestable
cpan/Tie-RefHash/t/storable.t	Test for Tie::RefHash with storable
cpan/Tie-RefHash/t/threaded.t	Test for Tie::RefHash with threads
cpan/Time-Local/lib/Time/Local.pm	Reverse translation of localtime, gmtime
cpan/Time-Local/t/Local.t		See if Time::Local works
cpan/Time-Piece/Piece.pm	Time::Piece extension
cpan/Time-Piece/Piece.xs	Time::Piece extension
cpan/Time-Piece/Seconds.pm	Time::Piece extension
cpan/Time-Piece/t/01base.t	Test for Time::Piece
cpan/Time-Piece/t/02core_dst.t
cpan/Time-Piece/t/02core.t	Test for Time::Piece
cpan/Time-Piece/t/03compare.t	Test for Time::Piece
cpan/Time-Piece/t/04mjd.t	Test for Time::Piece
cpan/Time-Piece/t/05overload.t	Test for Time::Piece
cpan/Time-Piece/t/06subclass.t	Test for Time::Piece
cpan/Time-Piece/t/07arith.t	Test for Time::Piece
cpan/Time-Piece/t/lib/Time/Piece/Twin.pm
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Collate/allkeys.txt	Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Collate/CJK/Big5.pm			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Collate/CJK/GB2312.pm			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Collate/CJK/JISX0208.pm			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Collate/CJK/Korean.pm			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Collate/CJK/Pinyin.pm			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Collate/CJK/Stroke.pm			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Collate/CJK/Zhuyin.pm
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Collate/keys.txt		Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Collate/Locale/af.pl			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Collate/Locale/ar.pl			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Collate/Locale/as.pl	Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Collate/Locale/az.pl			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Collate/Locale/be.pl	Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Collate/Locale/bg.pl	Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Collate/Locale/bn.pl		Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Collate/Locale/ca.pl			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Collate/Locale/cs.pl			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Collate/Locale/cy.pl			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Collate/Locale/da.pl			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Collate/Locale/de_phone.pl			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Collate/Locale/ee.pl
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Collate/Locale/eo.pl			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Collate/Locale/es.pl			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Collate/Locale/es_trad.pl			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Collate/Locale/et.pl			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Collate/Locale/fa.pl	Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Collate/Locale/fil.pl			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Collate/Locale/fi_phone.pl	Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Collate/Locale/fi.pl			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Collate/Locale/fo.pl			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Collate/Locale/fr.pl			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Collate/Locale/gu.pl	Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Collate/Locale/ha.pl			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Collate/Locale/haw.pl			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Collate/Locale/hi.pl	Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Collate/Locale/hr.pl			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Collate/Locale/hu.pl			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Collate/Locale/hy.pl			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Collate/Locale/ig.pl			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Collate/Locale/is.pl			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Collate/Locale/ja.pl			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Collate/Locale/kk.pl			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Collate/Locale/kl.pl			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Collate/Locale/kn.pl	Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Collate/Locale/kok.pl	Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Collate/Locale/ko.pl			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Collate/Locale/ln.pl	Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Collate/Locale/lt.pl			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Collate/Locale/lv.pl			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Collate/Locale/mk.pl	Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Collate/Locale/ml.pl	Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Collate/Locale/mr.pl	Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Collate/Locale/mt.pl			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Collate/Locale/nb.pl			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Collate/Locale/nn.pl			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Collate/Locale/nso.pl			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Collate/Locale/om.pl			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Collate/Locale/or.pl	Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Collate/Locale/pa.pl	Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Collate/Locale/pl.pl			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Collate/Locale.pm			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Collate/Locale/ro.pl			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Collate/Locale/ru.pl			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Collate/Locale/sa.pl		Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Collate/Locale/se.pl			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Collate/Locale/si_dict.pl	Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Collate/Locale/si.pl	Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Collate/Locale/sk.pl			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Collate/Locale/sl.pl			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Collate/Locale/sq.pl			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Collate/Locale/sr.pl	Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Collate/Locale/sv.pl			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Collate/Locale/sv_refo.pl	Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Collate/Locale/ta.pl	Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Collate/Locale/te.pl	Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Collate/Locale/th.pl	Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Collate/Locale/tn.pl			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Collate/Locale/to.pl			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Collate/Locale/tr.pl			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Collate/Locale/uk.pl			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Collate/Locale/ur.pl	Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Collate/Locale/vi.pl			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Collate/Locale/wae.pl	Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Collate/Locale/wo.pl			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Collate/Locale/yo.pl			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Collate/Locale/zh_big5.pl			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Collate/Locale/zh_gb.pl			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Collate/Locale/zh_pin.pl			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Collate/Locale/zh.pl			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Collate/Locale/zh_strk.pl			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Collate/Locale/zh_zhu.pl
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Collate.pm			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Collate.xs			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/Makefile.PL			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/mkheader			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/altern.t			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/backwds.t			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/cjk_b5.t		Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/cjk_gb.t		Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/cjk_ja.t		Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/cjk_ko.t		Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/cjk_py.t		Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/cjkrange.t		Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/cjk_st.t		Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/cjk_zy.t
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/compatui.t		Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/contract.t		Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/default.t		Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/hangtype.t		Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/hangul.t			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/ident.t
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/iglevel2.t			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/ignor.t			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/illegalp.t		Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/illegal.t		Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/index.t			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/loc_af.t			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/loc_ar.t			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/loc_as.t	Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/loc_az.t			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/loc_be.t			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/loc_bg.t			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/loc_bn.t		Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/loc_bscy.t
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/loc_bs.t	Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/loc_ca.t			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/loc_cjkc.t		Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/loc_cjk.t		Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/loc_cs.t			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/loc_cyrl.t			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/loc_cy.t			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/loc_da.t			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/loc_deph.t			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/loc_de.t			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/loc_ee.t
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/loc_eo.t			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/loc_es.t			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/loc_estr.t			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/loc_et.t			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/loc_fa.t	Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/loc_fil.t			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/loc_fiph.t	Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/loc_fi.t			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/loc_fo.t			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/loc_fr.t			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/loc_gu.t	Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/loc_ha.t			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/loc_haw.t			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/loc_hi.t	Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/loc_hr.t			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/loc_hu.t			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/loc_hy.t			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/loc_ig.t			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/loc_is.t			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/loc_jait.t			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/loc_japr.t			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/loc_ja.t			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/loc_kk.t			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/loc_kl.t			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/loc_kn.t	Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/loc_kok.t	Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/loc_ko.t			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/loc_ln.t	Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/loc_lt.t			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/loc_lv.t			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/loc_mk.t			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/loc_ml.t	Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/loc_mr.t	Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/loc_mt.t			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/loc_nb.t			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/loc_nn.t			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/loc_nso.t			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/loc_om.t			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/loc_or.t	Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/loc_pa.t	Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/loc_pl.t			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/loc_ro.t			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/loc_ru.t			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/loc_sa.t		Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/loc_se.t			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/loc_sidt.t	Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/loc_si.t	Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/loc_sk.t			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/loc_sl.t			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/loc_sq.t			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/loc_srla.t	Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/loc_sr.t			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/loc_svrf.t	Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/loc_sv.t			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/loc_sw.t			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/loc_ta.t	Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/loc_test.t			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/loc_te.t	Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/loc_th.t	Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/loc_tn.t			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/loc_to.t			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/loc_tr.t			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/loc_uk.t			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/loc_ur.t	Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/loc_vi.t			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/loc_wae.t	Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/loc_wo.t			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/loc_yo.t			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/loc_zhb5.t			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/loc_zhgb.t			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/loc_zhpy.t			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/loc_zhst.t			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/loc_zh.t			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/loc_zhzy.t
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/nonchar.t			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/normal.t			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/notable.t
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/overcjk0.t		Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/overcjk1.t		Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/override.t		Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/rearrang.t		Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/rewrite.t			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/test.t			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/trailwt.t		Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/variable.t		Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/version.t		Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Collate/t/view.t			Unicode::Collate
cpan/Unicode-Normalize/Makefile.PL	Unicode::Normalize
cpan/Unicode-Normalize/mkheader		Unicode::Normalize
cpan/Unicode-Normalize/Normalize.pm	Unicode::Normalize
cpan/Unicode-Normalize/Normalize.xs	Unicode::Normalize
cpan/Unicode-Normalize/t/fcdc.t		Unicode::Normalize
cpan/Unicode-Normalize/t/form.t		Unicode::Normalize
cpan/Unicode-Normalize/t/func.t		Unicode::Normalize
cpan/Unicode-Normalize/t/illegal.t	Unicode::Normalize
cpan/Unicode-Normalize/t/norm.t		Unicode::Normalize
cpan/Unicode-Normalize/t/null.t		Unicode::Normalize
cpan/Unicode-Normalize/t/partial1.t		Unicode::Normalize
cpan/Unicode-Normalize/t/partial2.t		Unicode::Normalize
cpan/Unicode-Normalize/t/proto.t	Unicode::Normalize
cpan/Unicode-Normalize/t/split.t	Unicode::Normalize
cpan/Unicode-Normalize/t/test.t		Unicode::Normalize
cpan/Unicode-Normalize/t/tie.t		Unicode::Normalize
cpan/version/lib/version/Internals.pod	Description of the internals of version objects
cpan/version/lib/version.pm		Support for version objects
cpan/version/lib/version.pod		Documentation of the version module
cpan/version/lib/version/regex.pm	Regex for matching version objects
cpan/version/t/01base.t			Tests for version objects
cpan/version/t/02derived.t		Tests for version objects
cpan/version/t/03require.t		Tests for version objects
cpan/version/t/04strict_lax.t		Tests for version objects
cpan/version/t/05sigdie.t		Tests for version objects
cpan/version/t/06noop.t			Tests for version objects
cpan/version/t/07locale.t		Tests for version objects
cpan/version/t/08_corelist.t		Tests for version objects
cpan/version/t/09_list_util.t		Tests for version objects
cpan/version/t/10_lyon.t		Tests for version objects
cpan/version/t/coretests.pm		Tests for version objects
cpan/Win32API-File/buffers.h	Win32API::File extension
cpan/Win32API-File/cFile.h	Win32API::File extension
cpan/Win32API-File/cFile.pc	Win32API::File extension
cpan/Win32API-File/const2perl.h	Win32API::File extension
cpan/Win32API-File/File.pm	Win32API::File extension
cpan/Win32API-File/File.xs	Win32API::File extension
cpan/Win32API-File/inc/ExtUtils/Myconst2perl.pm	Win32API::File extension
cpan/Win32API-File/Makefile.PL	Win32API::File extension makefile write
cpan/Win32API-File/t/file.t	See if Win32API::File extension works
cpan/Win32API-File/t/tie.t	See if Win32API::File extension works
cpan/Win32API-File/typemap	Win32API::File extension interface types
cpan/Win32/longpath.inc			Win32 extension long path support
cpan/Win32/Makefile.PL			Win32 extension makefile writer
cpan/Win32/t/CodePage.t			See if Win32 extension works
cpan/Win32/t/CreateFile.t		See if Win32 extension works
cpan/Win32/t/ExpandEnvironmentStrings.t	See if Win32 extension works
cpan/Win32/t/GetCurrentThreadId.t	See if Win32 extension works
cpan/Win32/t/GetFileVersion.t		See if Win32 extension works
cpan/Win32/t/GetFolderPath.t		See if Win32 extension works
cpan/Win32/t/GetFullPathName.t		See if Win32 extension works
cpan/Win32/t/GetLongPathName.t		See if Win32 extension works
cpan/Win32/t/GetOSName.t		See if Win32 extension works
cpan/Win32/t/GetOSVersion.t		See if Win32 extension works
cpan/Win32/t/GetShortPathName.t		See if Win32 extension works
cpan/Win32/t/GuidGen.t			See if Win32 extension works
cpan/Win32/t/Names.t			See if Win32 extension works
cpan/Win32/t/Unicode.t			See if Win32 extension works
cpan/Win32/Win32.pm			Win32 extension Perl module
cpan/Win32/Win32.xs			Win32 extension external subroutines
Cross/build-arm-n770-sh		Cross-compilation
Cross/cflags-cross-arm		Cross-compilation
Cross/config			Cross-compilation
Cross/config.sh-arm-linux	Cross-compilation
Cross/config.sh-arm-linux-n770	Cross-compilation
Cross/generate_config_sh	Cross-compilation
Cross/installperl.patch		Cross-compilation
Cross/Makefile			Cross-compilation
Cross/Makefile-cross-SH		Cross-compilation
Cross/Makefile.SH.patch		Cross-compilation
Cross/README			Cross-compilation
Cross/README.new		Cross-compilation
Cross/TODO			Cross-compilation
Cross/warp			Cross-compilation
cv.h				Code value header
cygwin/cygwin.c			Additional code for Cygwin port
deb.c				Debugging routines
.dir-locals.el			Emacs control file
dist/Attribute-Handlers/Changes				Attribute::Handlers
dist/Attribute-Handlers/demo/demo2.pl			Attribute::Handlers demo
dist/Attribute-Handlers/demo/demo3.pl			Attribute::Handlers demo
dist/Attribute-Handlers/demo/demo4.pl			Attribute::Handlers demo
dist/Attribute-Handlers/demo/demo_call.pl		Attribute::Handlers demo
dist/Attribute-Handlers/demo/demo_chain.pl		Attribute::Handlers demo
dist/Attribute-Handlers/demo/demo_cycle.pl		Attribute::Handlers demo
dist/Attribute-Handlers/demo/demo_hashdir.pl		Attribute::Handlers demo
dist/Attribute-Handlers/demo/demo_phases.pl		Attribute::Handlers demo
dist/Attribute-Handlers/demo/demo.pl			Attribute::Handlers demo
dist/Attribute-Handlers/demo/Demo.pm			Attribute::Handlers demo
dist/Attribute-Handlers/demo/demo_range.pl		Attribute::Handlers demo
dist/Attribute-Handlers/demo/demo_rawdata.pl		Attribute::Handlers demo
dist/Attribute-Handlers/demo/Descriptions.pm		Attribute::Handlers demo
dist/Attribute-Handlers/demo/MyClass.pm			Attribute::Handlers demo
dist/Attribute-Handlers/lib/Attribute/Handlers.pm	Attribute::Handlers
dist/Attribute-Handlers/t/constants.t			Test constants and Attribute::Handlers
dist/Attribute-Handlers/t/data_convert.t		Test attribute data conversion
dist/Attribute-Handlers/t/linerep.t			See if Attribute::Handlers works
dist/Attribute-Handlers/t/multi.t			See if Attribute::Handlers works
dist/autouse/lib/autouse.pm		Load and call a function only when it's used
dist/autouse/t/autouse.t		See if autouse works
dist/autouse/t/lib/MyTestModule2.pm	Test module for autouse
dist/autouse/t/lib/MyTestModule.pm	Test module for autouse
dist/base/Changes		base.pm changelog
dist/base/lib/base.pm		Establish IS-A relationship at compile time
dist/base/lib/fields.pm		Set up object field names for pseudo-hash-using classes
dist/base/Makefile.PL	base.pm Makefile.PL
dist/base/t/base-open-chunk.t	See if base works
dist/base/t/base-open-line.t	See if base works
dist/base/t/base.t		See if base works
dist/base/t/compile-time.t	See if base works
dist/base/t/core-global.t	See if base works around CORE::GLOBAL::require
dist/base/t/fields-5_6_0.t	See if fields work
dist/base/t/fields-5_8_0.t	See if fields work
dist/base/t/fields-base.t	See if fields work
dist/base/t/fields.t		See if fields work
dist/base/t/incdot.t		Test how base.pm handles '.' in @INC
dist/base/t/isa.t		See if base's behaviour doesn't change
dist/base/t/lib/BaseIncMandatory.pm	Test module for base.pm
dist/base/t/lib/BaseIncOptional.pm	Test module for base.pm
dist/base/t/lib/Broken.pm	Test module for base.pm
dist/base/t/lib/Dummy.pm	Test module for base.pm
dist/base/t/lib/HasSigDie.pm	Module for testing base.pm
dist/base/t/sigdie.t		See if base works with SIGDIE
dist/base/t/version.t		See if base works with versions
dist/base/t/warnings.t		See if base works with warnings
dist/Carp/Changes		Changelog for Carp's CPAN releases
dist/Carp/lib/Carp/Heavy.pm	Error message retired workhorse
dist/Carp/lib/Carp.pm		Error message extension
dist/Carp/Makefile.PL		makefile writer for Carp
dist/Carp/README		README for Carp's CPAN releases
dist/Carp/t/arg_regexp.t		See if Carp formats regexp args OK in stack traces
dist/Carp/t/arg_string.t		See if Carp formats string args OK in stack traces
dist/Carp/t/baduni.t		See if Carp handles non-char Unicode
dist/Carp/t/baduni_warnings.t		See if Carp handles non-char Unicode when loaded via warnings.pm
dist/Carp/t/Carp_overload.t		See if Carp handles overloads
dist/Carp/t/Carp.t		See if Carp works
dist/Carp/t/errno.t		See if Carp preserves $! and $^E
dist/Carp/t/heavy_mismatch.t		See if Carp::Heavy catches version mismatch
dist/Carp/t/heavy.t		See if Carp::Heavy works
dist/Carp/t/stash_deletion.t		See if Carp handles stash deletion
dist/Carp/t/swash.t		See if Carp avoids breaking swash loading
dist/Carp/t/vivify_gv.t		See if Carp leaves utf8:: stuff alone
dist/Carp/t/vivify_stash.t		See if Carp leaves utf8:: stash alone
dist/Carp/t/with_warnings.t		See if Carp plays nicely with warnings
dist/constant/lib/constant.pm	For "use constant"
dist/constant/t/constant.t	See if compile-time constants work
dist/constant/t/utf8.t		Test Unicode constants under utf8 pragma
dist/Data-Dumper/Changes	Data pretty printer, changelog
dist/Data-Dumper/Dumper.pm	Data pretty printer, module
dist/Data-Dumper/Dumper.xs	Data pretty printer, externals
dist/Data-Dumper/t/bless.t	See if Data::Dumper works
dist/Data-Dumper/t/bless_var_method.t	See if Data::Dumper::Bless works
dist/Data-Dumper/t/bugs.t	See if Data::Dumper works
dist/Data-Dumper/t/deparse.t	See if Data::Dumper::Deparse works
dist/Data-Dumper/t/dumper.t	See if Data::Dumper works
dist/Data-Dumper/t/dumpperl.t	See if Data::Dumper::Dumpperl works
dist/Data-Dumper/t/freezer.t	See if Data::Dumper::Freezer works
dist/Data-Dumper/t/freezer_useperl.t	See if Data::Dumper works
dist/Data-Dumper/t/huge.t	See if Data::Dumper works on huge inputs
dist/Data-Dumper/t/indent.t	See if Data::Dumper::Indent works
dist/Data-Dumper/t/lib/Testing.pm	Functions used in testing Data-Dumper
dist/Data-Dumper/t/misc.t	Miscellaneous tests for Data-Dumper
dist/Data-Dumper/t/names.t	See if Data::Dumper::Names works
dist/Data-Dumper/Todo		Data pretty printer, futures
dist/Data-Dumper/t/overload.t	See if Data::Dumper works for overloaded data
dist/Data-Dumper/t/pair.t	See if Data::Dumper pair separator works
dist/Data-Dumper/t/perl-74170.t	Regression test for stack reallocation
dist/Data-Dumper/t/purity_deepcopy_maxdepth.t	See if three Data::Dumper functions work
dist/Data-Dumper/t/qr.t		See if Data::Dumper works with qr|/|
dist/Data-Dumper/t/quotekeys.t	See if Data::Dumper::Quotekeys works
dist/Data-Dumper/t/recurse.t	See if Data::Dumper::Maxrecurse works
dist/Data-Dumper/t/seen.t	See if Data::Dumper::Seen works
dist/Data-Dumper/t/sortkeys.t	See if Data::Dumper::Sortkeys works
dist/Data-Dumper/t/sparseseen.t	See if Data::Dumper::Sparseseen works
dist/Data-Dumper/t/terse.t	See if Data::Dumper terse option works
dist/Data-Dumper/t/toaster.t	See if Data::Dumper::Toaster works
dist/Data-Dumper/t/trailing_comma.t	See if Data::Dumper::Trailingcomma works
dist/Data-Dumper/t/values.t	See if Data::Dumper::Values works
dist/Devel-SelfStubber/lib/Devel/SelfStubber.pm	Generate stubs for SelfLoader.pm
dist/Devel-SelfStubber/t/Devel-SelfStubber.t	See if Devel::SelfStubber works
dist/Dumpvalue/lib/Dumpvalue.pm	Screen dump of perl values
dist/Dumpvalue/t/Dumpvalue.t	See if Dumpvalue works
dist/encoding-warnings/lib/encoding/warnings.pm	warn on implicit encoding conversions
dist/encoding-warnings/t/1-warning.t	tests for encoding::warnings
dist/encoding-warnings/t/2-fatal.t	tests for encoding::warnings
dist/encoding-warnings/t/3-normal.t	tests for encoding::warnings
dist/encoding-warnings/t/4-lexical.t	tests for encoding::warnings
dist/Env/lib/Env.pm		Map environment into ordinary variables
dist/Env/t/array.t		See if Env works for arrays
dist/Env/t/env.t		See if Env works
dist/Exporter/lib/Exporter/Heavy.pm	Complicated routines for Exporter
dist/Exporter/lib/Exporter.pm		Exporter base class
dist/Exporter/t/Exporter.t		See if Exporter works
dist/Exporter/t/warn.t			See if Exporter respects warning handlers
dist/ExtUtils-CBuilder/Changes		EU-CB change log
dist/ExtUtils-CBuilder/lib/ExtUtils/CBuilder/Base.pm		Base class for ExtUtils::CBuilder methods
dist/ExtUtils-CBuilder/lib/ExtUtils/CBuilder/Platform/aix.pm	CBuilder methods for AIX
dist/ExtUtils-CBuilder/lib/ExtUtils/CBuilder/Platform/android.pm	CBuilder methods for Android
dist/ExtUtils-CBuilder/lib/ExtUtils/CBuilder/Platform/cygwin.pm	CBuilder methods for cygwin
dist/ExtUtils-CBuilder/lib/ExtUtils/CBuilder/Platform/darwin.pm	CBuilder methods for darwin
dist/ExtUtils-CBuilder/lib/ExtUtils/CBuilder/Platform/dec_osf.pm	CBuilder methods for OSF
dist/ExtUtils-CBuilder/lib/ExtUtils/CBuilder/Platform/os2.pm	CBuilder methods for OS/2
dist/ExtUtils-CBuilder/lib/ExtUtils/CBuilder/Platform/Unix.pm	CBuilder methods for Unix
dist/ExtUtils-CBuilder/lib/ExtUtils/CBuilder/Platform/VMS.pm	CBuilder methods for VMS
dist/ExtUtils-CBuilder/lib/ExtUtils/CBuilder/Platform/Windows/BCC.pm	CBuilder methods for Windows
dist/ExtUtils-CBuilder/lib/ExtUtils/CBuilder/Platform/Windows/GCC.pm	CBuilder methods for Windows
dist/ExtUtils-CBuilder/lib/ExtUtils/CBuilder/Platform/Windows/MSVC.pm	CBuilder methods for Windows
dist/ExtUtils-CBuilder/lib/ExtUtils/CBuilder/Platform/Windows.pm	CBuilder methods for Windows
dist/ExtUtils-CBuilder/lib/ExtUtils/CBuilder.pm			Compile and link C code for Perl modules
dist/ExtUtils-CBuilder/LICENSE		EU-CB license
dist/ExtUtils-CBuilder/Makefile.PL		EU-CB configuration script
dist/ExtUtils-CBuilder/README.patching		EU-CB patching nstructions
dist/ExtUtils-CBuilder/README.release		EU-CB release instructions
dist/ExtUtils-CBuilder/t/00-have-compiler.t			ExtUtils::CBuilder tests
dist/ExtUtils-CBuilder/t/01-basic.t				tests for ExtUtils::CBuilder
dist/ExtUtils-CBuilder/t/02-link.t				tests for ExtUtils::CBuilder
dist/ExtUtils-CBuilder/t/03-cplusplus.t				tests for ExtUtils::CBuilder
dist/ExtUtils-CBuilder/t/04-base.t				tests for ExtUtils::CBuilder
dist/ExtUtils-ParseXS/Changes					ExtUtils::ParseXS change log
dist/ExtUtils-ParseXS/lib/ExtUtils/ParseXS/Constants.pm		ExtUtils::ParseXS guts
dist/ExtUtils-ParseXS/lib/ExtUtils/ParseXS/CountLines.pm	ExtUtils::ParseXS guts
dist/ExtUtils-ParseXS/lib/ExtUtils/ParseXS/Eval.pm		ExtUtils::ParseXS guts
dist/ExtUtils-ParseXS/lib/ExtUtils/ParseXS.pm			converts Perl XS code into C code
dist/ExtUtils-ParseXS/lib/ExtUtils/ParseXS.pod			ExtUtils::ParseXS documentation
dist/ExtUtils-ParseXS/lib/ExtUtils/ParseXS/Utilities.pm		ExtUtils::ParseXS guts
dist/ExtUtils-ParseXS/lib/ExtUtils/Typemaps/Cmd.pm		ExtUtils::Typemaps helper module
dist/ExtUtils-ParseXS/lib/ExtUtils/Typemaps/InputMap.pm		ExtUtils::Typemaps guts
dist/ExtUtils-ParseXS/lib/ExtUtils/Typemaps/OutputMap.pm	ExtUtils::Typemaps guts
dist/ExtUtils-ParseXS/lib/ExtUtils/Typemaps.pm			ExtUtils::Typemaps, a PXS helper
dist/ExtUtils-ParseXS/lib/ExtUtils/Typemaps/Type.pm		ExtUtils::Typemaps guts
dist/ExtUtils-ParseXS/lib/ExtUtils/xsubpp			External subroutine preprocessor
dist/ExtUtils-ParseXS/lib/perlxs.pod				Perl XS application programming interface
dist/ExtUtils-ParseXS/lib/perlxstut.pod				Perl XS tutorial
dist/ExtUtils-ParseXS/lib/perlxstypemap.pod			Perl XS C/Perl type conversion tools
dist/ExtUtils-ParseXS/t/001-basic.t				See if ExtUtils::ParseXS works
dist/ExtUtils-ParseXS/t/002-more.t				Extended ExtUtils::ParseXS testing
dist/ExtUtils-ParseXS/t/003-usage.t				ExtUtils::ParseXS tests
dist/ExtUtils-ParseXS/t/101-standard_typemap_locations.t	ExtUtils::ParseXS tests
dist/ExtUtils-ParseXS/t/102-trim_whitespace.t			ExtUtils::ParseXS tests
dist/ExtUtils-ParseXS/t/103-tidy_type.t				ExtUtils::ParseXS tests
dist/ExtUtils-ParseXS/t/104-map_type.t				ExtUtils::ParseXS tests
dist/ExtUtils-ParseXS/t/105-valid_proto_string.t		ExtUtils::ParseXS tests
dist/ExtUtils-ParseXS/t/106-process_typemaps.t			ExtUtils::ParseXS tests
dist/ExtUtils-ParseXS/t/108-map_type.t				ExtUtils::ParseXS tests
dist/ExtUtils-ParseXS/t/109-standard_XS_defs.t			ExtUtils::ParseXS tests
dist/ExtUtils-ParseXS/t/110-assign_func_args.t			ExtUtils::ParseXS tests
dist/ExtUtils-ParseXS/t/111-analyze_preprocessor_statements.t	ExtUtils::ParseXS tests
dist/ExtUtils-ParseXS/t/112-set_cond.t				ExtUtils::ParseXS tests
dist/ExtUtils-ParseXS/t/113-check_cond_preproc_statements.t	ExtUtils::ParseXS tests
dist/ExtUtils-ParseXS/t/114-blurt_death_Warn.t			ExtUtils::ParseXS tests
dist/ExtUtils-ParseXS/t/115-avoid-noise.t			ExtUtils::ParseXS tests
dist/ExtUtils-ParseXS/t/501-t-compile.t				ExtUtils::Typemaps tests
dist/ExtUtils-ParseXS/t/510-t-bare.t				ExtUtils::Typemaps tests
dist/ExtUtils-ParseXS/t/511-t-whitespace.t			ExtUtils::Typemaps tests
dist/ExtUtils-ParseXS/t/512-t-file.t				ExtUtils::Typemaps tests
dist/ExtUtils-ParseXS/t/513-t-merge.t				ExtUtils::Typemaps tests
dist/ExtUtils-ParseXS/t/514-t-embed.t				ExtUtils::Typemaps tests
dist/ExtUtils-ParseXS/t/515-t-cmd.t				ExtUtils::Typemaps tests
dist/ExtUtils-ParseXS/t/516-t-clone.t				ExtUtils::Typemaps tests
dist/ExtUtils-ParseXS/t/517-t-targetable.t			ExtUtils::Typemaps tests
dist/ExtUtils-ParseXS/t/600-t-compat.t				ExtUtils::Typemaps tests
dist/ExtUtils-ParseXS/t/data/b.typemap				ExtUtils::Typemaps test data
dist/ExtUtils-ParseXS/t/data/combined.typemap			ExtUtils::Typemaps test data
dist/ExtUtils-ParseXS/t/data/conflicting.typemap		ExtUtils::Typemaps test data
dist/ExtUtils-ParseXS/t/data/confl_repl.typemap			ExtUtils::Typemaps test data
dist/ExtUtils-ParseXS/t/data/confl_skip.typemap			ExtUtils::Typemaps test data
dist/ExtUtils-ParseXS/t/data/other.typemap			ExtUtils::Typemaps test data
dist/ExtUtils-ParseXS/t/data/perl.typemap			ExtUtils::Typemaps test data
dist/ExtUtils-ParseXS/t/data/simple.typemap			ExtUtils::Typemaps test data
dist/ExtUtils-ParseXS/t/lib/ExtUtils/Typemaps/Test.pm		ExtUtils::Typemaps tests
dist/ExtUtils-ParseXS/t/lib/IncludeTester.pm			ExtUtils::ParseXS testing utility
dist/ExtUtils-ParseXS/t/lib/PrimitiveCapture.pm			Primitive STDOUT/ERR capturing for tests
dist/ExtUtils-ParseXS/t/lib/TypemapTest/Foo.pm			ExtUtils::Typemaps tests
dist/ExtUtils-ParseXS/t/pseudotypemap1				A test-typemap
dist/ExtUtils-ParseXS/t/typemap					Standard typemap for controlled testing
dist/ExtUtils-ParseXS/t/XSInclude.xsh				Test file for ExtUtils::ParseXS tests
dist/ExtUtils-ParseXS/t/XSMore.xs				Test file for ExtUtils::ParseXS tests
dist/ExtUtils-ParseXS/t/XSTest.pm				Test file for ExtUtils::ParseXS tests
dist/ExtUtils-ParseXS/t/XSTest.xs				Test file for ExtUtils::ParseXS tests
dist/ExtUtils-ParseXS/t/XSUsage.pm				ExtUtils::ParseXS tests
dist/ExtUtils-ParseXS/t/XSUsage.xs				ExtUtils::ParseXS tests
dist/ExtUtils-ParseXS/t/XSWarn.xs				ExtUtils::ParseXS tests
dist/Filter-Simple/lib/Filter/Simple.pm				Simple frontend to Filter::Util::Call
dist/Filter-Simple/t/code_no_comments.t				See if Filter::Simple works
dist/Filter-Simple/t/data.t					See if Filter::Simple works
dist/Filter-Simple/t/export.t					See if Filter::Simple works
dist/Filter-Simple/t/filter_only.t				See if Filter::Simple works
dist/Filter-Simple/t/filter.t					See if Filter::Simple works
dist/Filter-Simple/t/import.t					See if Filter::Simple works
dist/Filter-Simple/t/lib/Filter/Simple/CodeNoComments.pm	Helper file for Filter::Simple tests
dist/Filter-Simple/t/lib/Filter/Simple/ExportTest.pm		Helper file for Filter::Simple tests
dist/Filter-Simple/t/lib/Filter/Simple/FilterOnlyTest.pm	Helper file for Filter::Simple tests
dist/Filter-Simple/t/lib/Filter/Simple/FilterTest.pm		Helper file for Filter::Simple tests
dist/Filter-Simple/t/lib/Filter/Simple/ImportTest.pm		Helper file for Filter::Simple tests
dist/I18N-Collate/lib/I18N/Collate.pm		Routines to do strxfrm-based collation
dist/I18N-Collate/t/I18N-Collate.t		See if I18N::Collate works
dist/I18N-LangTags/ChangeLog			I18N::LangTags
dist/I18N-LangTags/lib/I18N/LangTags/Detect.pm	Detect language preferences
dist/I18N-LangTags/lib/I18N/LangTags/List.pm	List of tags for human languages
dist/I18N-LangTags/lib/I18N/LangTags.pm		I18N::LangTags
dist/I18N-LangTags/README			I18N::LangTags
dist/I18N-LangTags/t/01_about_verbose.t		See whether I18N::LangTags works
dist/I18N-LangTags/t/05_main.t			See whether I18N::LangTags works
dist/I18N-LangTags/t/07_listy.t			See whether I18N::LangTags works
dist/I18N-LangTags/t/10_http.t			See whether I18N::LangTags works
dist/I18N-LangTags/t/20_locales.t		See whether I18N::LangTags works
dist/I18N-LangTags/t/50_super.t			See whether I18N::LangTags works
dist/I18N-LangTags/t/55_supers_strict.t		See whether I18N::LangTags works
dist/I18N-LangTags/t/80_all_env.t		See whether I18N::LangTags works
dist/if/Changes			if perl module change log
dist/if/if.pm			For "use if"
dist/if/t/if.t			Tests for "use if"
dist/IO/ChangeLog		IO perl module change log
dist/IO/hints/sco.pl		Hint for IO for named architecture
dist/IO/IO.pm			Top-level interface to IO::* classes
dist/IO/IO.xs			IO extension external subroutines
dist/IO/lib/IO/Dir.pm		IO directory reading package
dist/IO/lib/IO/File.pm		IO file handle package
dist/IO/lib/IO/Handle.pm	IO base handle package
dist/IO/lib/IO/Pipe.pm		IO pipe package
dist/IO/lib/IO/Poll.pm		IO system poll() interface
dist/IO/lib/IO/Seekable.pm	IO methods for seekable handles
dist/IO/lib/IO/Select.pm	IO system select() interface
dist/IO/lib/IO/Socket/INET.pm	IO INET specific socket methods
dist/IO/lib/IO/Socket.pm	IO socket handle package
dist/IO/lib/IO/Socket/UNIX.pm	IO UNIX specific socket methods
dist/IO/Makefile.PL		IO extension makefile writer
dist/IO/poll.c			IO poll() emulation using select()
dist/IO/poll.h			IO poll() emulation using select()
dist/IO/README			IO extension maintenance notice
dist/IO/t/cachepropagate-tcp.t	See if IO::Socket duplication works
dist/IO/t/cachepropagate-udp.t	See if IO::Socket duplication works
dist/IO/t/cachepropagate-unix.t	See if IO::Socket duplication works
dist/IO/t/io_const.t		See if constants from IO work
dist/IO/t/io_dir.t		See if directory-related methods from IO work
dist/IO/t/io_dup.t		See if dup()-related methods from IO work
dist/IO/t/io_file_export.t	Test IO::File exports
dist/IO/t/io_file.t		See if binmode()-related methods on IO::File work
dist/IO/t/io_linenum.t		See if I/O line numbers are tracked correctly
dist/IO/t/io_multihomed.t	See if INET sockets work with multi-homed hosts
dist/IO/t/io_pipe.t		See if pipe()-related methods from IO work
dist/IO/t/io_poll.t		See if poll()-related methods from IO work
dist/IO/t/io_sel.t		See if select()-related methods from IO work
dist/IO/t/io_sock.t		See if INET socket-related methods from IO work
dist/IO/t/IO.t			See if IO works
dist/IO/t/io_taint.t		See if the untaint method from IO works
dist/IO/t/io_tell.t		See if seek()/tell()-related methods from IO work
dist/IO/t/io_udp.t		See if UDP socket-related methods from IO work
dist/IO/t/io_unix.t		See if UNIX socket-related methods from IO work
dist/IO/t/io_utf8argv.t		See if <> respects open pragma
dist/IO/t/io_utf8.t		See if perlio opens work
dist/IO/t/io_xs.t		See if XSUB methods from IO work
dist/lib/lib_pm.PL		For "use lib", produces lib/lib.pm
dist/lib/Makefile.PL
dist/lib/t/01lib.t		For "use lib" testing
dist/Locale-Maketext/ChangeLog				Locale::Maketext
dist/Locale-Maketext/lib/Locale/Maketext/Cookbook.pod	Locale::Maketext
dist/Locale-Maketext/lib/Locale/Maketext/GutsLoader.pm	Locale::Maketext
dist/Locale-Maketext/lib/Locale/Maketext/Guts.pm	Locale::Maketext
dist/Locale-Maketext/lib/Locale/Maketext.pm		Locale::Maketext
dist/Locale-Maketext/lib/Locale/Maketext.pod		Locale::Maketext documentation
dist/Locale-Maketext/lib/Locale/Maketext/TPJ13.pod	Locale::Maketext documentation article
dist/Locale-Maketext/README				Locale::Maketext
dist/Locale-Maketext/t/01_about_verbose.t		See if Locale::Maketext works
dist/Locale-Maketext/t/04_use_external_lex_cache.t	See if Locale::Maketext works
dist/Locale-Maketext/t/09_compile.t	Test Locale::Maketext::_compile
dist/Locale-Maketext/t/10_make.t			See if Locale::Maketext works
dist/Locale-Maketext/t/20_get.t				See if Locale::Maketext works
dist/Locale-Maketext/t/30_eval_dollar_at.t		See if Locale::Maketext works
dist/Locale-Maketext/t/40_super.t			See if Locale::Maketext works
dist/Locale-Maketext/t/50_super.t			See if Locale::Maketext works
dist/Locale-Maketext/t/60_super.t			See if Locale::Maketext works
dist/Locale-Maketext/t/70_fail_auto.t			See if Locale::Maketext works
dist/Locale-Maketext/t/90_utf8.t			See if Locale::Maketext works
dist/Locale-Maketext/t/91_backslash.t			See if Locale::Maketext works
dist/Module-CoreList/Changes			Module::CoreList Changes
dist/Module-CoreList/corelist			The corelist command-line utility
dist/Module-CoreList/identify-dependencies	A usage example for Module::CoreList
dist/Module-CoreList/lib/Module/CoreList.pm	Module::CoreList
dist/Module-CoreList/lib/Module/CoreList.pod	Module::CoreList
dist/Module-CoreList/lib/Module/CoreList/TieHashDelta.pm	Module::CoreList guts
dist/Module-CoreList/lib/Module/CoreList/Utils.pm	Module::CoreList guts
dist/Module-CoreList/Makefile.PL		Module::CoreList
dist/Module-CoreList/MANIFEST			Module::CoreList
dist/Module-CoreList/README			Module::CoreList
dist/Module-CoreList/t/corelist.t		Module::CoreList tests
dist/Module-CoreList/t/deprecated.t		Module::CoreList tests
dist/Module-CoreList/t/find_modules.t		Module::CoreList tests
dist/Module-CoreList/t/is_core.t		Module::CoreList tests
dist/Module-CoreList/t/pod.t			Module::CoreList tests
dist/Module-CoreList/t/utils.t			Module::CoreList tests
dist/Net-Ping/Changes			Net::Ping
dist/Net-Ping/lib/Net/Ping.pm		Hello, anybody home?
dist/Net-Ping/t/100_load.t		Ping Net::Ping
dist/Net-Ping/t/110_icmp_inst.t		Ping Net::Ping
dist/Net-Ping/t/120_udp_inst.t		Ping Net::Ping
dist/Net-Ping/t/130_tcp_inst.t		Ping Net::Ping
dist/Net-Ping/t/140_stream_inst.t	Ping Net::Ping
dist/Net-Ping/t/150_syn_inst.t		Ping Net::Ping
dist/Net-Ping/t/190_alarm.t		Ping Net::Ping
dist/Net-Ping/t/200_ping_tcp.t		Ping Net::Ping
dist/Net-Ping/t/250_ping_hires.t	Ping Net::Ping
dist/Net-Ping/t/300_ping_stream.t	Ping Net::Ping
dist/Net-Ping/t/400_ping_syn.t		Ping Net::Ping
dist/Net-Ping/t/410_syn_host.t		Ping Net::Ping
dist/Net-Ping/t/450_service.t		Ping Net::Ping
dist/Net-Ping/t/500_ping_icmp.t		Ping Net::Ping
dist/Net-Ping/t/510_ping_udp.t		Ping Net::Ping
dist/Net-Ping/t/520_icmp_ttl.t		Ping Net::Ping
dist/PathTools/Changes			Changelog for PathTools dist
dist/PathTools/Cwd.pm				Various cwd routines (getcwd, fastcwd, chdir)
dist/PathTools/Cwd.xs				Cwd extension external subroutines
dist/PathTools/lib/File/Spec/AmigaOS.pm		portable operations on AmigaOS file names
dist/PathTools/lib/File/Spec/Cygwin.pm	portable operations on Cygwin file names
dist/PathTools/lib/File/Spec/Epoc.pm		portable operations on EPOC file names
dist/PathTools/lib/File/Spec/Functions.pm	Function interface to File::Spec object methods
dist/PathTools/lib/File/Spec/Mac.pm		portable operations on Mac file names
dist/PathTools/lib/File/Spec/OS2.pm		portable operations on OS2 file names
dist/PathTools/lib/File/Spec.pm		portable operations on file names
dist/PathTools/lib/File/Spec/Unix.pm		portable operations on Unix file names
dist/PathTools/lib/File/Spec/VMS.pm		portable operations on VMS file names
dist/PathTools/lib/File/Spec/Win32.pm		portable operations on Win32 and NetWare file names
dist/PathTools/Makefile.PL			makefile writer for Cwd
dist/PathTools/t/abs2rel.t		See if File::Spec->abs2rel works
dist/PathTools/t/crossplatform.t		See if File::Spec works crossplatform
dist/PathTools/t/cwd.t			See if Cwd works
dist/PathTools/t/Functions.t			See if File::Spec::Functions works
dist/PathTools/t/rel2abs2rel.t		See if File::Spec->rel2abs/abs2rel works
dist/PathTools/t/Spec.t			See if File::Spec works
dist/PathTools/t/Spec-taint.t			See if File::Spec works with taint
dist/PathTools/t/taint.t			See if Cwd works with taint
dist/PathTools/t/tmpdir.t			See if File::Spec->tmpdir() works
dist/PathTools/t/win32.t			See if Cwd works on Win32
dist/Safe/Changes		Changes for Safe.pm
dist/Safe/Makefile.PL		Makefile.PL for Safe.pm
dist/Safe/MANIFEST		MANIFEST for Safe.pm
dist/Safe/META.yml		META.yml for Safe.pm
dist/Safe/README		README for Safe.pm
dist/Safe/Safe.pm		Safe extension Perl module
dist/Safe/t/safe1.t		See if Safe works
dist/Safe/t/safe2.t		See if Safe works
dist/Safe/t/safe3.t		See if Safe works
dist/Safe/t/safeload.t		Tests that some modules can be loaded by Safe
dist/Safe/t/safenamedcap.t	Tests that Tie::Hash::NamedCapture can be loaded
dist/Safe/t/safeops.t		Tests that all ops can be trapped by Safe
dist/Safe/t/saferegexp.t	Tests Safe with regular expressions
dist/Safe/t/safesecurity.t	Tests misc. security fixes in Safe
dist/Safe/t/safesort.t		Tests Safe with sort
dist/Safe/t/safeuniversal.t	Tests Safe with functions from universal.c
dist/Safe/t/safeutf8.t		Tests Safe with utf8.pm
dist/Safe/t/safewrap.t		Tests Safe::wrap_code_ref()
dist/Search-Dict/Changes		Change log
dist/Search-Dict/lib/Search/Dict.pm	Perform binary search on dictionaries
dist/Search-Dict/Makefile.PL		Makefile.PL
dist/Search-Dict/README.patching	Patch instructions
dist/Search-Dict/README.release		Release instructions
dist/Search-Dict/t/Dict.t		See if Search::Dict works
dist/SelfLoader/lib/SelfLoader.pm	Load functions only on demand
dist/SelfLoader/t/01SelfLoader.t	See if SelfLoader works
dist/SelfLoader/t/02SelfLoader-buggy.t	See if SelfLoader works
dist/SelfLoader/t/03taint.t		See if SelfLoader works under taint
dist/Storable/ChangeLog			Storable extension
dist/Storable/hints/gnukfreebsd.pl	Hint for Storable for named architecture
dist/Storable/hints/gnuknetbsd.pl	Hint for Storable for named architecture
dist/Storable/hints/hpux.pl		Hint for Storable for named architecture
dist/Storable/hints/linux.pl		Hint for Storable for named architecture
dist/Storable/Makefile.PL		Storable extension
dist/Storable/README			Storable extension
dist/Storable/Storable.pm		Storable extension
dist/Storable/Storable.xs		Storable extension
dist/Storable/t/attach_errors.t		Trigger and test STORABLE_attach errors
dist/Storable/t/attach_singleton.t	Test STORABLE_attach for the Singleton pattern
dist/Storable/t/attach.t		Check STORABLE_attach doesn't create objects unnecessarily
dist/Storable/t/blessed.t		See if Storable works
dist/Storable/t/canonical.t		See if Storable works
dist/Storable/t/circular_hook.t		Test thaw hook called depth-first for circular refs
dist/Storable/t/code.t			See if Storable works
dist/Storable/t/compat01.t		See if Storable works
dist/Storable/t/compat06.t		See if Storable works
dist/Storable/t/croak.t			See if Storable works
dist/Storable/t/dclone.t		See if Storable works
dist/Storable/t/destroy.t		Test Storable in global destructon
dist/Storable/t/downgrade.t		See if Storable works
dist/Storable/t/file_magic.t		See if file_magic function works
dist/Storable/t/forgive.t		See if Storable works
dist/Storable/t/freeze.t		See if Storable works
dist/Storable/t/HAS_ATTACH.pm		For auto-requiring of modules for STORABLE_attach
dist/Storable/t/HAS_HOOK.pm		For auto-requiring of modules for STORABLE_thaw
dist/Storable/t/HAS_OVERLOAD.pm		For auto-requiring of mdoules for overload
dist/Storable/t/integer.t		See if Storable works
dist/Storable/t/interwork56.t		Test compatibility kludge for 64bit data under 5.6.x
dist/Storable/t/just_plain_nasty.t	See if Storable works
dist/Storable/t/leaks.t			See if Storable leaks (skips in core)
dist/Storable/t/lock.t			See if Storable works
dist/Storable/t/make_56_interwork.pl	Make test data for interwork56.t
dist/Storable/t/make_downgrade.pl	Make test data for downgrade.t
dist/Storable/t/make_overload.pl	Make test data for overload.t
dist/Storable/t/malice.t		See if Storable copes with corrupt files
dist/Storable/t/overload.t		See if Storable works
dist/Storable/t/recurse.t		See if Storable works
dist/Storable/t/restrict.t		See if Storable works
dist/Storable/t/retrieve.t		See if Storable works
dist/Storable/t/robust.t		See if it survives mangled %INC
dist/Storable/t/sig_die.t		See if Storable works
dist/Storable/t/st-dump.pl		See if Storable works
dist/Storable/t/store.t			See if Storable works
dist/Storable/t/testlib.pl		more helper routines for tests
dist/Storable/t/threads.t		Does Storable work with threads?
dist/Storable/t/tied_hook.t		See if Storable works
dist/Storable/t/tied_items.t		See if Storable works
dist/Storable/t/tied_store.t		See if Storable works
dist/Storable/t/tied.t			See if Storable works
dist/Storable/t/utf8hash.t		See if Storable works
dist/Storable/t/utf8.t			See if Storable works
dist/Storable/t/weak.t			Can Storable store weakrefs
dist/Term-Complete/lib/Term/Complete.pm	A command completion subroutine
dist/Term-Complete/t/Complete.t		See if Term::Complete works
dist/Term-ReadLine/lib/Term/ReadLine.pm		Stub readline library
dist/Term-ReadLine/t/AE.t			See if Term::ReadLine works
dist/Term-ReadLine/t/AETk.t			See if Term::ReadLine works
dist/Term-ReadLine/t/ReadLine.t			See if Term::ReadLine works
dist/Term-ReadLine/t/Tk.t			See if Term::ReadLine works
dist/Test/lib/Test.pm		A simple framework for writing test scripts
dist/Test/t/05_about_verbose.t	See if Test works
dist/Test/t/fail.t		See if Test works
dist/Test/t/mix.t		See if Test works
dist/Test/t/multiline.t		See if Test works
dist/Test/t/onfail.t		See if Test works
dist/Test/t/qr.t		See if Test works
dist/Test/t/skip.t		See if Test works
dist/Test/t/success.t		See if Test works
dist/Test/t/todo.t		See if Test works
dist/Text-Abbrev/lib/Text/Abbrev.pm		An abbreviation table builder
dist/Text-Abbrev/t/Abbrev.t		Test Text::Abbrev
dist/Thread-Queue/lib/Thread/Queue.pm	Thread-safe queues
dist/Thread-Queue/t/01_basic.t		Thread::Queue tests
dist/Thread-Queue/t/02_refs.t		Thread::Queue tests
dist/Thread-Queue/t/03_peek.t		Thread::Queue tests
dist/Thread-Queue/t/04_errs.t		Thread::Queue tests
dist/Thread-Queue/t/05_extract.t	Thread::Queue tests
dist/Thread-Queue/t/06_insert.t		Thread::Queue tests
dist/Thread-Queue/t/07_lock.t		Thread::Queue tests
dist/Thread-Queue/t/08_nothreads.t	Thread::Queue tests
dist/Thread-Queue/t/09_ended.t		Thread::Queue tests
dist/Thread-Queue/t/10_timed.t	Thread::Queue tests
dist/Thread-Queue/t/11_limit.t	Thread::Queue tests
dist/Thread-Semaphore/lib/Thread/Semaphore.pm	Thread-safe semaphores
dist/Thread-Semaphore/t/01_basic.t		Thread::Semaphore tests
dist/Thread-Semaphore/t/02_errs.t		Thread::Semaphore tests
dist/Thread-Semaphore/t/03_nothreads.t		Thread::Semaphore tests
dist/Thread-Semaphore/t/04_nonblocking.t	Thread::Semaphore tests
dist/Thread-Semaphore/t/05_force.t	Thread::Semaphore tests
dist/threads/hints/hpux.pl	Hint file for HPUX
dist/threads/hints/linux.pl	Hint file for Linux
dist/threads/lib/threads.pm		ithreads
dist/threads-shared/hints/linux.pl	thread shared variables
dist/threads-shared/lib/threads/shared.pm	thread shared variables
dist/threads-shared/shared.xs		thread shared variables
dist/threads-shared/t/0nothread.t	Tests for basic shared array functionality.
dist/threads-shared/t/av_refs.t		Tests for arrays containing references
dist/threads-shared/t/av_simple.t	Tests for basic shared array functionality.
dist/threads-shared/t/blessed.t		Test blessed shared variables
dist/threads-shared/t/clone.t		Test shared cloning
dist/threads-shared/t/cond.t		Test condition variables
dist/threads-shared/t/disabled.t	Test threads::shared when threads are disabled.
dist/threads-shared/t/dualvar.t	Test dual-valued variables
dist/threads-shared/t/hv_refs.t		Test shared hashes containing references
dist/threads-shared/t/hv_simple.t	Tests for basic shared hash functionality.
dist/threads-shared/t/no_share.t	Tests for disabled share on variables.
dist/threads-shared/t/object2.t	More shared objects tests
dist/threads-shared/t/object.t		Shared objects tests
dist/threads-shared/t/shared_attr.t	Test :shared attribute
dist/threads-shared/t/stress.t		Stress test
dist/threads-shared/t/sv_refs.t		thread shared variables
dist/threads-shared/t/sv_simple.t	thread shared variables
dist/threads-shared/t/utf8.t		Test UTF-8 keys in shared hashes
dist/threads-shared/t/waithires.t	Test sub-second cond_timedwait
dist/threads-shared/t/wait.t		Test cond_wait and cond_timedwait
dist/threads/t/basic.t		ithreads
dist/threads/t/blocks.t		Test threads in special blocks
dist/threads/t/context.t	Explicit thread context
dist/threads/t/end.t		Test end functions
dist/threads/t/err.t		Test $thr->error()
dist/threads/t/exit.t		Test exit and die in threads
dist/threads/t/free2.t		More ithread destruction tests
dist/threads/t/free.t		Test ithread destruction
dist/threads/threads.xs		ithreads
dist/threads/t/join.t		Testing the join function
dist/threads/t/kill2.t		Tests thread signalling
dist/threads/t/kill.t		Tests thread signalling
dist/threads/t/libc.t		testing libc functions for threadsafety
dist/threads/t/list.t		Test threads->list()
dist/threads/t/no_threads.t	threads test for non-threaded Perls
dist/threads/t/problems.t	Test various memory problems
dist/threads/t/stack_env.t	Tests for stack limits
dist/threads/t/stack.t		Tests for stack limits
dist/threads/t/state.t		Tests state methods
dist/threads/t/stress_cv.t	Test with multiple threads, coderef cv argument.
dist/threads/t/stress_re.t	Test with multiple threads, string cv argument and regexes.
dist/threads/t/stress_string.t	Test with multiple threads, string cv argument.
dist/threads/t/thread.t		General ithread tests from thr5005
dist/Tie-File/lib/Tie/File.pm		Files as tied arrays
dist/Tie-File/t/00_version.t		Trivial test for Tie::File
dist/Tie-File/t/01_gen.t		Generic read/write tests for Tie::File
dist/Tie-File/t/02_fetchsize.t		File length fetch test for Tie::File
dist/Tie-File/t/03_longfetch.t		Past-the-end-of-the-array tests for Tie::File
dist/Tie-File/t/04_splice.t		SPLICE method tests for Tie::File
dist/Tie-File/t/05_size.t		$#a tests for Tie::File
dist/Tie-File/t/06_fixrec.t		'_fixrec' method functional tests for Tie::File
dist/Tie-File/t/07_rv_splice.t		SPLICE method return value tests for Tie::File
dist/Tie-File/t/08_ro.t			read-only mode tests for Tie::File
dist/Tie-File/t/09_gen_rs.t		Like 01_gen.t, with unusual record separator
dist/Tie-File/t/10_splice_rs.t		Like 04_splice.t, with unusual record separator
dist/Tie-File/t/11_rv_splice_rs.t	Like 07_rv_splice.t, with unusual record separator
dist/Tie-File/t/12_longfetch_rs.t	Like 03_longfetch.t, with unusual record separator
dist/Tie-File/t/13_size_rs.t		Like 05_size.t, with unusual record separator
dist/Tie-File/t/14_lock.t		File locking method tests for Tie::File
dist/Tie-File/t/15_pushpop.t		PUSH / POP / SHIFT / UNSHIFT for Tie::File
dist/Tie-File/t/16_handle.t		Tying a handle instead of a file for Tie::File
dist/Tie-File/t/17_misc_meth.t		CLEAR / EXISTS / DELETE / EXTEND for Tie::File
dist/Tie-File/t/18_rs_fixrec.t		Like 06_fixrec.t, with unusual record separator
dist/Tie-File/t/19_cache.t		Read cache exercises and regression for Tie::File
dist/Tie-File/t/20_cache_full.t		LRU expiry exercises and regression for Tie::File
dist/Tie-File/t/21_win32.t		Win32 special behavior of Tie::File
dist/Tie-File/t/22_autochomp.t		'autochomp' option of Tie::File
dist/Tie-File/t/23_rv_ac_splice.t	Like 07_rv_splice.t, but with autochomp
dist/Tie-File/t/24_cache_loop.t		Regression for old Tie::File cache bug
dist/Tie-File/t/25_gen_nocache.t	Like 01_gen.t, but with caching disabled
dist/Tie-File/t/26_twrite.t		Unit tests for Tie::File::_twrite
dist/Tie-File/t/27_iwrite.t		Unit tests for Tie::File::_iwrite
dist/Tie-File/t/28_mtwrite.t		Unit tests for Tie::File::_mtwrite
dist/Tie-File/t/29a_upcopy.t		Unit tests for Tie::File::_upcopy
dist/Tie-File/t/29_downcopy.t		Unit tests for Tie::File::_downcopy
dist/Tie-File/t/30_defer.t		deferred writing feature tests for Tie::File
dist/Tie-File/t/31_autodefer.t		'autodefer' feature tests for Tie::File
dist/Tie-File/t/32_defer_misc.t		Like 17_misc_meth.t, but with deferred writing
dist/Tie-File/t/33_defer_vs.t		Like 30_defer.t, but with varying-length records
dist/Tie-File/t/40_abs_cache.t		Unit tests for Tie::File::Cache
dist/Tie-File/t/41_heap.t		Unit tests for Tie::File::Heap
dist/Tie-File/t/42_offset.t		Unit tests for the offset method
dist/Time-HiRes/Changes			Time::HiRes extension
dist/Time-HiRes/fallback/const-c.inc	Time::HiRes extension
dist/Time-HiRes/fallback/const-xs.inc	Time::HiRes extension
dist/Time-HiRes/hints/aix.pl		Hint for Time::HiRes for named architecture
dist/Time-HiRes/hints/dec_osf.pl	Hint for Time::HiRes for named architecture
dist/Time-HiRes/hints/dynixptx.pl	Hint for Time::HiRes for named architecture
dist/Time-HiRes/hints/irix.pl		Hint for Time::HiRes for named architecture
dist/Time-HiRes/hints/linux.pl		Hints for Time::HiRes for named architecture
dist/Time-HiRes/hints/sco.pl		Hints for Time::HiRes for named architecture
dist/Time-HiRes/hints/solaris.pl	Hints for Time::HiRes for named architecture
dist/Time-HiRes/hints/svr4.pl		Hints for Time::HiRes for named architecture
dist/Time-HiRes/HiRes.pm		Time::HiRes extension
dist/Time-HiRes/HiRes.xs		Time::HiRes extension
dist/Time-HiRes/Makefile.PL		Time::HiRes extension
dist/Time-HiRes/t/alarm.t		Test for Time::HiRes
dist/Time-HiRes/t/clock.t		Test for Time::HiRes
dist/Time-HiRes/t/gettimeofday.t	Test for Time::HiRes
dist/Time-HiRes/t/itimer.t		Test for Time::HiRes
dist/Time-HiRes/t/nanosleep.t		Test for Time::HiRes
dist/Time-HiRes/t/sleep.t		Test for Time::HiRes
dist/Time-HiRes/t/stat.t		Test for Time::HiRes
dist/Time-HiRes/t/time.t		Test for Time::HiRes
dist/Time-HiRes/t/tv_interval.t		Test for Time::HiRes
dist/Time-HiRes/t/ualarm.t		Test for Time::HiRes
dist/Time-HiRes/t/usleep.t		Test for Time::HiRes
dist/Time-HiRes/t/utime.t		Test for Time::HiRes
dist/Time-HiRes/t/Watchdog.pm		Test for Time::HiRes
dist/Time-HiRes/typemap			Time::HiRes extension
dist/XSLoader/Makefile.PL	Dynamic Loader makefile writer
dist/XSLoader/t/XSLoader.t	See if XSLoader works
dist/XSLoader/XSLoader_pm.PL	Simple XS Loader perl module
djgpp/config.over	DOS/DJGPP port
djgpp/configure.bat	DOS/DJGPP port
djgpp/djgpp.c		DOS/DJGPP port
djgpp/djgpp.h		DOS/DJGPP port
djgpp/djgppsed.sh	DOS/DJGPP port
djgpp/fixpmain		DOS/DJGPP port
doio.c			I/O operations
doop.c			Support code for various operations
dosish.h		Some defines for MS/DOSish machines
dquote.c		Functions for double quotish contexts
dquote_inline.h		Inline functions for double quotish contexts
dump.c			Debugging output
ebcdic_tables.h		Generated tables included in utfebcdic.h
embed.fnc		Database used by embed.pl
embed.h			Maps symbols to safer names
embedvar.h		C namespace management
ext/Amiga-ARexx/ARexx.pm	Amiga::ARexx extension
ext/Amiga-ARexx/ARexx.xs	Amiga::ARexx extension
ext/Amiga-ARexx/__examples/simplecommand.pl	Amiga::ARexx extension
ext/Amiga-ARexx/__examples/simplehost.pl	Amiga::ARexx extension
ext/Amiga-ARexx/Makefile.PL	Amiga::ARexx extension
ext/Amiga-ARexx/tagtypes.h			Amiga::ARexx extension
ext/Amiga-ARexx/typemap	Amiga::ARexx extension
ext/Amiga-Exec/__examples/simplecommand.pl	Amiga::Exec extension
ext/Amiga-Exec/__examples/simplehost.pl		Amiga::Exec extension
ext/Amiga-Exec/Exec.pm	Amiga::Exec extension
ext/Amiga-Exec/Exec.xs	Amiga::Exec extension
ext/Amiga-Exec/Makefile.PL			Amiga::Exec extension
ext/Amiga-Exec/tagtypes.h	Amiga::Exec extension
ext/Amiga-Exec/typemap		Amiga::Exec extension
ext/arybase/arybase.pm		For $[
ext/arybase/arybase.xs		For $[
ext/arybase/ptable.h		For $[
ext/arybase/t/aeach.t		For $[
ext/arybase/t/aelem.t		For $[
ext/arybase/t/akeys.t		For $[
ext/arybase/t/arybase.t		For $[
ext/arybase/t/aslice.t		For $[
ext/arybase/t/av2arylen.t	For $[
ext/arybase/t/index.t		For $[
ext/arybase/t/lslice.t		For $[
ext/arybase/t/pos.t		For $[
ext/arybase/t/scope_0.pm	For $[
ext/arybase/t/scope.t		For $[
ext/arybase/t/splice.t		For $[
ext/arybase/t/substr.t		For $[
ext/attributes/attributes.pm		For "sub foo : attrlist"
ext/attributes/attributes.xs		For "sub foo : attrlist"
ext/B/B/Concise.pm	Compiler Concise backend
ext/B/B.pm		Compiler backend support functions and methods
ext/B/B/Showlex.pm	Compiler Showlex backend
ext/B/B/Terse.pm	Compiler Terse backend
ext/B/B/Xref.pm		Compiler Xref backend
ext/B/B.xs		Compiler backend external subroutines
ext/B/hints/darwin.pl	Hints for named architecture
ext/B/Makefile.PL	Compiler backend makefile writer
ext/B/O.pm		Compiler front-end module (-MO=...)
ext/B/t/b.t		See if B works
ext/B/t/concise.t	See whether B::Concise works
ext/B/t/concise-xs.t	See whether B::Concise recognizes XS functions
ext/B/t/f_map			code from perldoc -f map
ext/B/t/f_map.t			converted to optreeCheck()s
ext/B/t/f_sort			optree test raw material
ext/B/t/f_sort.t		optree test raw material
ext/B/t/OptreeCheck.pm		optree comparison tool
ext/B/t/optree_check.t		test OptreeCheck apparatus
ext/B/t/optree_concise.t	more B::Concise tests
ext/B/t/optree_constants.t	B::Concise rendering of optimized constant subs
ext/B/t/optree_misc.t		misc optree tests
ext/B/t/optree_samples.t	various basic codes: if for while
ext/B/t/optree_sort.t		inplace sort optimization regression
ext/B/t/optree_specials.t	BEGIN, END, etc code
ext/B/t/optree_varinit.t	my,our,local var init optimization
ext/B/t/o.t		See if O works
ext/B/t/pragma.t	See if user pragmas work.
ext/B/t/showlex.t	See if B::ShowLex works
ext/B/t/sv_stash.t	See if SvSTASH() works
ext/B/t/terse.t		See if B::Terse works
ext/B/t/walkoptree.t	See if B::walkoptree (and friends) work
ext/B/t/xref.t		See if B::Xref works
ext/B/typemap			Compiler backend interface types
ext/Devel-Peek/Changes		Data debugging tool, changelog
ext/Devel-Peek/Peek.pm		Data debugging tool, module and pod
ext/Devel-Peek/Peek.xs		Data debugging tool, externals
ext/Devel-Peek/t/Peek.t		See if Devel::Peek works
ext/DynaLoader/dl_aix.xs	AIX implementation
ext/DynaLoader/dl_dllload.xs	S/390 dllload() style implementation
ext/DynaLoader/dl_dlopen.xs	BSD/SunOS4&5 dlopen() style implementation
ext/DynaLoader/dl_dyld.xs	NeXT/Apple dyld implementation
ext/DynaLoader/dl_freemint.xs	GNU dld style implementation for FreeMINT
ext/DynaLoader/dl_hpux.xs	HP-UX implementation
ext/DynaLoader/dl_none.xs	Stub implementation
ext/DynaLoader/dl_symbian.xs	Symbian implementation
ext/DynaLoader/dlutils.c	Dynamic loader utilities for dl_*.xs files
ext/DynaLoader/dl_vms.xs	VMS implementation
ext/DynaLoader/dl_win32.xs	Win32 implementation
ext/DynaLoader/DynaLoader_pm.PL	Dynamic Loader perl module
ext/DynaLoader/hints/aix.pl	Hint for DynaLoader for named architecture
ext/DynaLoader/hints/android.pl	Hint for DynaLoader for named architecture
ext/DynaLoader/hints/gnukfreebsd.pl	Hint for DynaLoader for named architecture
ext/DynaLoader/hints/gnuknetbsd.pl	Hint for DynaLoader for named architecture
ext/DynaLoader/hints/linux.pl	Hint for DynaLoader for named architecture
ext/DynaLoader/hints/netbsd.pl	Hint for DynaLoader for named architecture
ext/DynaLoader/hints/openbsd.pl	Hint for DynaLoader for named architecture
ext/DynaLoader/Makefile.PL	Dynamic Loader makefile writer
ext/DynaLoader/README		Dynamic Loader notes and intro
ext/DynaLoader/t/DynaLoader.t	See if DynaLoader works
EXTERN.h			Included before foreign .h files
ext/Errno/ChangeLog	Errno changes
ext/Errno/Errno_pm.PL	Errno perl module create script
ext/Errno/Makefile.PL	Errno extension makefile writer
ext/Errno/t/Errno.t	See if Errno works
ext/ExtUtils-Miniperl/lib/ExtUtils/Miniperl.pm	Writes {mini,}perlmain.c
ext/Fcntl/Fcntl.pm	Fcntl extension Perl module
ext/Fcntl/Fcntl.xs	Fcntl extension external subroutines
ext/Fcntl/Makefile.PL	Fcntl extension makefile writer
ext/Fcntl/t/autoload.t	See if Fcntl AUTOLOAD error messages work
ext/Fcntl/t/fcntl.t	See if Fcntl works
ext/Fcntl/t/mode.t	See if S_ISREG() and S_ISDIR() work
ext/Fcntl/t/syslfs.t	See if large files work for sysio
ext/FileCache/lib/FileCache.pm	Keep more files open than the system permits
ext/FileCache/t/01open.t	See if FileCache works
ext/FileCache/t/02maxopen.t	See if FileCache works
ext/FileCache/t/03append.t	See if FileCache works
ext/FileCache/t/04twoarg.t	See if FileCache works
ext/FileCache/t/05override.t	See if FileCache works
ext/FileCache/t/06export.t	See if FileCache exporting works
ext/FileCache/t/07noimport.t	See if FileCache works without importing
ext/File-DosGlob/DosGlob.xs		Win32 DOS-globbing module
ext/File-DosGlob/lib/File/DosGlob.pm	Win32 DOS-globbing module
ext/File-DosGlob/t/DosGlob.t		See if File::DosGlob works
ext/File-Find/lib/File/Find.pm	Routines to do a find
ext/File-Find/t/find.t		See if File::Find works
ext/File-Find/t/lib/Testing.pm		Functions used in testing File-find
ext/File-Find/t/taint.t		See if File::Find works with taint
ext/File-Glob/bsd_glob.c	File::Glob extension run time code
ext/File-Glob/bsd_glob.h	File::Glob extension header file
ext/File-Glob/Changes		File::Glob extension changelog
ext/File-Glob/Glob.pm		File::Glob extension module
ext/File-Glob/Glob.xs		File::Glob extension external subroutines
ext/File-Glob/Makefile.PL	File::Glob extension makefile writer
ext/File-Glob/t/basic.t		See if File::Glob works
ext/File-Glob/t/case.t		See if File::Glob works
ext/File-Glob/t/global.t	See if File::Glob works
ext/File-Glob/TODO		File::Glob extension todo list
ext/File-Glob/t/rt114984.t	See if File::Glob works
ext/File-Glob/t/taint.t		See if File::Glob works
ext/File-Glob/t/threads.t	See if File::Glob + threads works
ext/GDBM_File/GDBM_File.pm	GDBM extension Perl module
ext/GDBM_File/GDBM_File.xs	GDBM extension external subroutines
ext/GDBM_File/hints/sco.pl	Hint for GDBM_File for named architecture
ext/GDBM_File/Makefile.PL	GDBM extension makefile writer
ext/GDBM_File/t/fatal.t		Test the fatal_func argument to gdbm_open
ext/GDBM_File/t/gdbm.t		See if GDBM_File works
ext/GDBM_File/typemap		GDBM extension interface types
ext/Hash-Util/Changes		Change history of Hash::Util
ext/Hash-Util-FieldHash/Changes			Changes for Hash::Util::FieldHash
ext/Hash-Util-FieldHash/FieldHash.xs		XS portion
ext/Hash-Util-FieldHash/lib/Hash/Util/FieldHash.pm	Perl portion and documentation
ext/Hash-Util-FieldHash/t/01_load.t		Test script
ext/Hash-Util-FieldHash/t/02_function.t		Test script
ext/Hash-Util-FieldHash/t/03_class.t		Test script
ext/Hash-Util-FieldHash/t/04_thread.t		Test script
ext/Hash-Util-FieldHash/t/05_perlhook.t		Test script
ext/Hash-Util-FieldHash/t/11_hashassign.t	Adapted from t/op/hashassign.t
ext/Hash-Util-FieldHash/t/12_hashwarn.t		Adapted from t/op/hashwarn.t
ext/Hash-Util/lib/Hash/Util.pm	Hash::Util
ext/Hash-Util/Makefile.PL	Makefile for Hash::Util
ext/Hash-Util/t/Util.t		See if Hash::Util works
ext/Hash-Util/Util.xs		XS bits of Hash::Util
ext/I18N-Langinfo/Langinfo.pm	I18N::Langinfo
ext/I18N-Langinfo/Langinfo.xs	I18N::Langinfo
ext/I18N-Langinfo/Makefile.PL	I18N::Langinfo
ext/I18N-Langinfo/t/Langinfo.t	See whether I18N::Langinfo works
ext/IPC-Open3/lib/IPC/Open2.pm	Open a two-ended pipe
ext/IPC-Open3/lib/IPC/Open3.pm	Open a three-ended pipe
ext/IPC-Open3/t/fd.t		See if IPC::Open3 works w/ file descriptors
ext/IPC-Open3/t/IPC-Open2.t	See if IPC::Open2 works
ext/IPC-Open3/t/IPC-Open3.t	See if IPC::Open3 works
ext/mro/Changes			mro extension
ext/mro/mro.pm			mro extension
ext/mro/mro.xs			mro extension
ext/NDBM_File/hints/cygwin.pl	Hint for NDBM_File for named architecture
ext/NDBM_File/hints/dec_osf.pl	Hint for NDBM_File for named architecture
ext/NDBM_File/hints/dynixptx.pl	Hint for NDBM_File for named architecture
ext/NDBM_File/hints/gnukfreebsd.pl	Hint for NDBM_File for named architecture
ext/NDBM_File/hints/gnuknetbsd.pl	Hint for NDBM_File for named architecture
ext/NDBM_File/hints/gnu.pl	Hint for NDBM_File for named architecture
ext/NDBM_File/hints/linux.pl	Hint for NDBM_File for named architecture
ext/NDBM_File/hints/MSWin32.pl	Hint for NDBM_File for named architecture
ext/NDBM_File/hints/sco.pl	Hint for NDBM_File for named architecture
ext/NDBM_File/hints/solaris.pl	Hint for NDBM_File for named architecture
ext/NDBM_File/hints/svr4.pl	Hint for NDBM_File for named architecture
ext/NDBM_File/Makefile.PL	NDBM extension makefile writer
ext/NDBM_File/NDBM_File.pm	NDBM extension Perl module
ext/NDBM_File/NDBM_File.xs	NDBM extension external subroutines
ext/NDBM_File/t/ndbm.t		See if NDBM_File works
ext/NDBM_File/typemap		NDBM extension interface types
ext/ODBM_File/hints/cygwin.pl	Hint for ODBM_File for named architecture
ext/ODBM_File/hints/dec_osf.pl	Hint for ODBM_File for named architecture
ext/ODBM_File/hints/gnukfreebsd.pl	Hint for NDBM_File for named architecture
ext/ODBM_File/hints/gnuknetbsd.pl	Hint for NDBM_File for named architecture
ext/ODBM_File/hints/gnu.pl	Hint for ODBM_File for named architecture
ext/ODBM_File/hints/hpux.pl	Hint for ODBM_File for named architecture
ext/ODBM_File/hints/linux.pl	Hint for ODBM_File for named architecture
ext/ODBM_File/hints/MSWin32.pl	Hint for ODBM_File for named architecture
ext/ODBM_File/hints/sco.pl	Hint for ODBM_File for named architecture
ext/ODBM_File/hints/solaris.pl	Hint for ODBM_File for named architecture
ext/ODBM_File/hints/svr4.pl	Hint for ODBM_File for named architecture
ext/ODBM_File/hints/ultrix.pl	Hint for ODBM_File for named architecture
ext/ODBM_File/Makefile.PL	ODBM extension makefile writer
ext/ODBM_File/ODBM_File.pm	ODBM extension Perl module
ext/ODBM_File/ODBM_File.xs	ODBM extension external subroutines
ext/ODBM_File/t/odbm.t		See if ODBM_File works
ext/ODBM_File/typemap		ODBM extension interface types
ext/Opcode/Opcode.pm		Opcode extension Perl module
ext/Opcode/Opcode.xs		Opcode extension external subroutines
ext/Opcode/ops.pm		"Pragma" form of Opcode extension Perl module
ext/Opcode/t/Opcode.t		See if Opcode works
ext/Opcode/t/ops.t		See if Opcode works
ext/PerlIO-encoding/encoding.pm	PerlIO::encoding
ext/PerlIO-encoding/encoding.xs	PerlIO::encoding
ext/PerlIO-encoding/t/encoding.t	See if PerlIO encoding conversion works
ext/PerlIO-encoding/t/fallback.t	See if PerlIO fallbacks work
ext/PerlIO-encoding/t/nolooping.t	Tests for PerlIO::encoding
ext/PerlIO-encoding/t/threads.t		Tests PerlIO::encoding and threads
ext/PerlIO-mmap/mmap.pm	PerlIO layer for memory maps
ext/PerlIO-mmap/mmap.xs	PerlIO layer for memory maps
ext/PerlIO-scalar/scalar.pm	PerlIO layer for scalars
ext/PerlIO-scalar/scalar.xs	PerlIO layer for scalars
ext/PerlIO-scalar/t/scalar.t	See if PerlIO::scalar works
ext/PerlIO-scalar/t/scalar_ungetc.t	Tests for PerlIO layer for scalars
ext/PerlIO-via/hints/aix.pl	Hint for PerlIO::via for named architecture
ext/PerlIO-via/t/via.t		See if PerlIO::via works
ext/PerlIO-via/via.pm		PerlIO layer for layers in perl
ext/PerlIO-via/via.xs		PerlIO layer for layers in perl
ext/Pod-Functions/Functions_pm.PL	Writes Functions.pm
ext/Pod-Functions/Makefile.PL		Makefile writer
ext/Pod-Functions/t/Functions.t		See if Pod::Functions works
ext/Pod-Html/bin/pod2html	Translator to turn pod into HTML
ext/Pod-Html/lib/Pod/Html.pm	Convert POD data to HTML
ext/Pod-Html/t/anchorify.t
ext/Pod-Html/t/cache.pod
ext/Pod-Html/t/cache.t
ext/Pod-Html/t/crossref2.t
ext/Pod-Html/t/crossref3.t
ext/Pod-Html/t/crossref.pod
ext/Pod-Html/t/crossref.t
ext/Pod-Html/t/eol.t		test end of line agnosticism
ext/Pod-Html/testdir/perlpodspec-copy.pod
ext/Pod-Html/testdir/perlvar-copy.pod
ext/Pod-Html/t/feature2.pod
ext/Pod-Html/t/feature2.t
ext/Pod-Html/t/feature.pod
ext/Pod-Html/t/feature.t
ext/Pod-Html/t/htmldir1.pod
ext/Pod-Html/t/htmldir1.t
ext/Pod-Html/t/htmldir2.pod
ext/Pod-Html/t/htmldir2.t
ext/Pod-Html/t/htmldir3.pod
ext/Pod-Html/t/htmldir3.t
ext/Pod-Html/t/htmldir4.pod
ext/Pod-Html/t/htmldir4.t
ext/Pod-Html/t/htmldir5.pod
ext/Pod-Html/t/htmldir5.t
ext/Pod-Html/t/htmlescp.pod	pod2html escape test input data
ext/Pod-Html/t/htmlescp.t	pod2html escape test
ext/Pod-Html/t/htmllink.pod	pod2html link test input data
ext/Pod-Html/t/htmllink.t	pod2html link test
ext/Pod-Html/t/htmlview.pod	pod2html render test input data
ext/Pod-Html/t/htmlview.t	pod2html render test
ext/Pod-Html/t/pod2html-lib.pl	pod2html testing library
ext/Pod-Html/t/poderr.pod
ext/Pod-Html/t/poderr.t
ext/Pod-Html/t/podnoerr.pod
ext/Pod-Html/t/podnoerr.t
ext/POSIX/hints/bsdos.pl	Hint for POSIX for named architecture
ext/POSIX/hints/dynixptx.pl	Hint for POSIX for named architecture
ext/POSIX/hints/freebsd.pl	Hint for POSIX for named architecture
ext/POSIX/hints/gnukfreebsd.pl	Hint for POSIX for named architecture
ext/POSIX/hints/gnuknetbsd.pl	Hint for POSIX for named architecture
ext/POSIX/hints/linux.pl	Hint for POSIX for named architecture
ext/POSIX/hints/mint.pl		Hint for POSIX for named architecture
ext/POSIX/hints/netbsd.pl	Hint for POSIX for named architecture
ext/POSIX/hints/openbsd.pl	Hint for POSIX for named architecture
ext/POSIX/hints/sunos_4.pl	Hint for POSIX for named architecture
ext/POSIX/hints/svr4.pl		Hint for POSIX for named architecture
ext/POSIX/lib/POSIX.pm		POSIX extension Perl module
ext/POSIX/lib/POSIX.pod		POSIX extension documentation
ext/POSIX/Makefile.PL		POSIX extension makefile writer
ext/POSIX/POSIX.xs		POSIX extension external subroutines
ext/POSIX/t/export.t		Test @EXPORT and @EXPORT_OK
ext/POSIX/t/iscrash		See if POSIX isxxx() crashes with threads on Win32
ext/POSIX/t/math.t		Basic math tests for POSIX
ext/POSIX/t/posix.t		See if POSIX works
ext/POSIX/t/sigaction.t		See if POSIX::sigaction works
ext/POSIX/t/sigset.t		See if POSIX::SigSet works
ext/POSIX/t/strerror_errno.t	See if POSIX:strerror doesn't trash $!
ext/POSIX/t/sysconf.t		See if POSIX works
ext/POSIX/t/taint.t		See if POSIX works with taint
ext/POSIX/t/termios.t		See if POSIX works
ext/POSIX/t/time.t		See if POSIX time-related functions work
ext/POSIX/t/unimplemented.t	Test the diagnostics for unimplemented functions
ext/POSIX/t/usage.t		Test the diagnostics for usage messages
ext/POSIX/t/waitpid.t		See if waitpid works
ext/POSIX/t/wrappers.t		Test the POSIX wrapper subroutines
ext/POSIX/typemap		POSIX extension interface types
ext/re/Makefile.PL		re extension makefile writer
ext/re/re_comp.h		re extension wrapper for regcomp.h
ext/re/re.pm			re extension Perl module
ext/re/re_top.h			re extension symbol hiding header
ext/re/re.xs			re extension external subroutines
ext/re/t/lexical_debug.pl	generate debug output for lexical re 'debug'
ext/re/t/lexical_debug.t	test that lexical re 'debug' works
ext/re/t/qr.t			test that qr// is a Regexp
ext/re/t/reflags.t		see if re '/xism' pragma works
ext/re/t/re_funcs.t		See if exportable 're' funcs in re.xs work
ext/re/t/re_funcs_u.t		See if exportable 're' funcs in universal.c work
ext/re/t/regop.pl		generate debug output for various patterns
ext/re/t/regop.t		test RE optimizations by scraping debug output
ext/re/t/re.t			see if re pragma works
ext/re/t/strict.t		see if re 'strict' subpragma works
ext/SDBM_File/biblio	SDBM kit
ext/SDBM_File/CHANGES	SDBM kit
ext/SDBM_File/COMPARE	SDBM kit
ext/SDBM_File/dba.c	SDBM kit
ext/SDBM_File/dbd.c	SDBM kit
ext/SDBM_File/dbe.1	SDBM kit
ext/SDBM_File/dbe.c	SDBM kit
ext/SDBM_File/dbu.c	SDBM kit
ext/SDBM_File/grind	SDBM kit
ext/SDBM_File/hash.c	SDBM kit
ext/SDBM_File/linux.patches	SDBM kit
ext/SDBM_File/Makefile.PL	SDBM extension makefile writer
ext/SDBM_File/makefile.sdbm	SDBM kit
ext/SDBM_File/pair.c	SDBM kit
ext/SDBM_File/pair.h	SDBM kit
ext/SDBM_File/README	SDBM kit
ext/SDBM_File/readme.ms	SDBM kit
ext/SDBM_File/README.too	SDBM kit
ext/SDBM_File/sdbm.3	SDBM kit
ext/SDBM_File/sdbm.c	SDBM kit
ext/SDBM_File/SDBM_File.pm	SDBM extension Perl module
ext/SDBM_File/SDBM_File.xs	SDBM extension external subroutines
ext/SDBM_File/sdbm.h	SDBM kit
ext/SDBM_File/t/constants.t	See if SDBM_File constants work
ext/SDBM_File/t/prep.t		See if SDBM_File with extra argument works
ext/SDBM_File/t/sdbm.t		See if SDBM_File works
ext/SDBM_File/tune.h	SDBM kit
ext/SDBM_File/typemap		SDBM extension interface types
ext/SDBM_File/util.c	SDBM kit
ext/Sys-Hostname/Hostname.pm	Sys::Hostname extension Perl module
ext/Sys-Hostname/Hostname.xs	Sys::Hostname extension external subroutines
ext/Sys-Hostname/t/Hostname.t	See if Sys::Hostname works
ext/Tie-Hash-NamedCapture/NamedCapture.pm	Implements %- and %+ behaviour
ext/Tie-Hash-NamedCapture/NamedCapture.xs	Implements %- and %+ behaviour
ext/Tie-Hash-NamedCapture/t/tiehash.t		Tests TIEHASH
ext/Tie-Memoize/lib/Tie/Memoize.pm	Base class for memoized tied hashes
ext/Tie-Memoize/t/Tie-Memoize.t		Test for Tie::Memoize
ext/VMS-DCLsym/0README.txt	ReadMe file for VMS::DCLsym
ext/VMS-DCLsym/DCLsym.pm	Perl access to CLI symbols
ext/VMS-DCLsym/DCLsym.xs	Perl access to CLI symbols
ext/VMS-DCLsym/Makefile.PL	MakeMaker driver for VMS::DCLsym
ext/VMS-DCLsym/t/vms_dclsym.t	regression tests for VMS::DCLsym
ext/VMS-Filespec/lib/VMS/Filespec.pm	VMS-Unix file syntax interconversion
ext/VMS-Filespec/t/filespec.t		See if VMS::Filespec functions work
ext/VMS-Stdio/0README.txt	ReadMe file for VMS::Stdio
ext/VMS-Stdio/Makefile.PL	MakeMaker driver for VMS::Stdio
ext/VMS-Stdio/Stdio.pm		VMS options to stdio routines
ext/VMS-Stdio/Stdio.xs		VMS options to stdio routines
ext/VMS-Stdio/t/vms_stdio.t	regression tests for VMS::Stdio
ext/Win32CORE/Makefile.PL	Win32CORE extension
ext/Win32CORE/t/win32core.t	Win32CORE extension
ext/Win32CORE/Win32CORE.c	Win32CORE extension
ext/Win32CORE/Win32CORE.pm	Win32CORE extension (stubs for Win32 CORE subs)
ext/XS-APItest/APItest.pm	XS::APItest extension
ext/XS-APItest/APItest.xs	XS::APItest extension
ext/XS-APItest/core.c		Test API functions when PERL_CORE is defined
ext/XS-APItest/core_or_not.inc	Code common to core.c and notcore.c
ext/XS-APItest/exception.c	XS::APItest extension
ext/XS-APItest/Makefile.PL	XS::APItest extension
ext/XS-APItest/notcore.c	Test API functions when PERL_CORE is not defined
ext/XS-APItest/numeric.xs	XS::APItest wrappers for numeric.c
ext/XS-APItest/t/addissub.t	test op check wrapping
ext/XS-APItest/t/arrayexpr.t	test recursive descent expression parsing
ext/XS-APItest/t/autoload.t	Test XS AUTOLOAD routines
ext/XS-APItest/t/BHK.pm		Helper for ./blockhooks.t
ext/XS-APItest/t/blockasexpr.t	test recursive descent block parsing
ext/XS-APItest/t/blockhooks-csc.t	XS::APItest: more tests for PL_blockhooks
ext/XS-APItest/t/blockhooks.t	XS::APItest: tests for PL_blockhooks
ext/XS-APItest/t/Block.pm	Helper for ./blockhooks.t
ext/XS-APItest/t/call_checker.t	test call checker plugin API
ext/XS-APItest/t/caller.t	XS::APItest: tests for caller_cx
ext/XS-APItest/t/callregexec.t	XS::APItest: tests for CALLREGEXEC()
ext/XS-APItest/t/call.t		Test calling perl from C
ext/XS-APItest/t/check_warnings.t	test scope of "Too late for CHECK"
ext/XS-APItest/t/cleanup.t	test stack behaviour on unwinding
ext/XS-APItest/t/clone-with-stack.t	test clone with CLONEf_COPY_STACKS works
ext/XS-APItest/t/cophh.t	test COPHH API
ext/XS-APItest/t/coplabel.t	test cop_*_label
ext/XS-APItest/t/copstash.t	test alloccopstash
ext/XS-APItest/t/copyhints.t	test hv_copy_hints_hv() API
ext/XS-APItest/t/customop.t	XS::APItest: tests for custom ops
ext/XS-APItest/t/cv_name.t	test cv_name
ext/XS-APItest/t/eval-filter.t	Simple source filter/eval test
ext/XS-APItest/t/exception.t	XS::APItest extension
ext/XS-APItest/t/extend.t	test EXTEND() macro
ext/XS-APItest/t/fetch_pad_names.t	Tests for UTF8 names in pad
ext/XS-APItest/t/gotosub.t	XS::APItest: tests goto &xsub and hints
ext/XS-APItest/t/grok.t		XS::APItest: tests for grok* functions
ext/XS-APItest/t/gv_autoload4.t	XS::APItest: tests for gv_autoload4() and variants
ext/XS-APItest/t/gv_const_sv.t	XS::APItest: test gv_const_sv()
ext/XS-APItest/t/gv_fetchmeth_autoload.t	XS::APItest: tests for gv_fetchmeth_autoload() and variants
ext/XS-APItest/t/gv_fetchmethod_flags.t	XS::APItest: tests for gv_fetchmethod_flags() and variants
ext/XS-APItest/t/gv_fetchmeth.t		XS::APItest: tests for gv_fetchmeth() and variants
ext/XS-APItest/t/gv_init.t	XS::APItest: tests for gv_init and variants
ext/XS-APItest/t/handy.t	XS::APItest: tests for handy.h
ext/XS-APItest/t/hash.t		XS::APItest: tests for hash related APIs
ext/XS-APItest/t/join_with_space.t	test op_convert_list
ext/XS-APItest/t/keyword_multiline.t	test keyword plugin parsing across lines
ext/XS-APItest/t/keyword_plugin.t	test keyword plugin mechanism
ext/XS-APItest/t/labelconst.aux	auxiliary file for label test
ext/XS-APItest/t/labelconst.t	test recursive descent label parsing
ext/XS-APItest/t/labelconst_utf8.aux	auxiliary file for label test in UTF-8
ext/XS-APItest/t/lexsub.t	Test XS registration of lexical subs
ext/XS-APItest/t/locale.t	test locale-related things
ext/XS-APItest/t/loopblock.t	test recursive descent block parsing
ext/XS-APItest/t/looprest.t	test recursive descent statement-sequence parsing
ext/XS-APItest/t/lvalue.t	Test XS lvalue functions
ext/XS-APItest/t/magic_chain.t	test low-level MAGIC chain handling
ext/XS-APItest/t/magic.t	test attaching, finding, and removing magic
ext/XS-APItest/t/Markers.pm	Helper for ./blockhooks.t
ext/XS-APItest/t/mro.t		Test mro plugin api
ext/XS-APItest/t/multicall.t	XS::APItest: test MULTICALL macros
ext/XS-APItest/t/my_cxt.t	XS::APItest: test MY_CXT interface
ext/XS-APItest/t/my_exit.t	XS::APItest: test my_exit
ext/XS-APItest/t/newCONSTSUB.t	XS::APItest: test newCONSTSUB(_flags)
ext/XS-APItest/t/newDEFSVOP.t	XS::APItest: test newDEFSVOP
ext/XS-APItest/t/Null.pm	Helper for ./blockhooks.t
ext/XS-APItest/t/op_contextualize.t	test op_contextualize() API
ext/XS-APItest/t/op_list.t	test OP list construction API
ext/XS-APItest/t/op.t		XS::APItest: tests for OP related APIs
ext/XS-APItest/t/overload.t	XS::APItest: tests for overload related APIs
ext/XS-APItest/t/pad_scalar.t	Test pad_findmy_* functions
ext/XS-APItest/t/peep.t		test PL_peepp/PL_rpeepp
ext/XS-APItest/t/pmflag.t	Test removal of Perl_pmflag()
ext/XS-APItest/t/postinc.t	test op_lvalue()
ext/XS-APItest/t/printf.t	XS::APItest extension
ext/XS-APItest/t/ptr_table.t	Test ptr_table_* APIs
ext/XS-APItest/t/push.t		XS::APItest extension
ext/XS-APItest/t/refs.t		Test typemap ref handling
ext/XS-APItest/t/rmagical.t	XS::APItest extension
ext/XS-APItest/t/rv2cv_op_cv.t	test rv2cv_op_cv() API
ext/XS-APItest/t/savehints.t	test SAVEHINTS() API
ext/XS-APItest/t/scopelessblock.t	test recursive descent statement-sequence parsing
ext/XS-APItest/t/sort.t		Test sort(xs_cmp ...)
ext/XS-APItest/t/stmtasexpr.t	test recursive descent statement parsing
ext/XS-APItest/t/stmtsasexpr.t	test recursive descent statement-sequence parsing
ext/XS-APItest/t/stuff_modify_bug.t	test for eval side-effecting source string
ext/XS-APItest/t/stuff_svcur_bug.t	test for a bug in lex_stuff_pvn
ext/XS-APItest/t/subcall.t	Test XSUB calls
ext/XS-APItest/t/svcatpvf.t	Test sv_catpvf argument reordering
ext/XS-APItest/t/svcat.t	Test sv_catpvn
ext/XS-APItest/t/sviscow.t	Test SvIsCOW
ext/XS-APItest/t/svpeek.t	XS::APItest extension
ext/XS-APItest/t/svpv_magic.t	Test behaviour of SvPVbyte/utf8 & get magic
ext/XS-APItest/t/svpv.t		More generic SvPVbyte and SvPVutf8 tests
ext/XS-APItest/t/svsetsv.t	Test behaviour of sv_setsv with/without PERL_CORE
ext/XS-APItest/t/swaplabel.t	test recursive descent label parsing
ext/XS-APItest/t/swaptwostmts.t	test recursive descent statement parsing
ext/XS-APItest/t/sym-hook.t	Test rv2cv hooks for bareword lookup
ext/XS-APItest/t/synthetic_scope.t	Test block_start/block_end/intro_my
ext/XS-APItest/t/temp_lv_sub.t	XS::APItest: tests for lvalue subs returning temps
ext/XS-APItest/t/underscore_length.t	Test find_rundefsv()
ext/XS-APItest/t/utf16_to_utf8.t	Test behaviour of utf16_to_utf8{,reversed}
ext/XS-APItest/t/utf8.t		Tests for code in utf8.c
ext/XS-APItest/t/weaken.t	XS::APItest: tests for sv_rvweaken() and sv_get_backrefs()
ext/XS-APItest/t/whichsig.t	XS::APItest: tests for whichsig() and variants
ext/XS-APItest/t/win32.t	Test Win32 specific APIs
ext/XS-APItest/t/xs_special_subs_require.t	for require too
ext/XS-APItest/t/xs_special_subs.t	Test that XS BEGIN/CHECK/INIT/END work
ext/XS-APItest/t/xsub_h.t	Tests for XSUB.h
ext/XS-APItest/typemap
ext/XS-APItest/XSUB-redefined-macros.xs	XS code needing redefined macros.
ext/XS-APItest/XSUB-undef-XS_VERSION.xs	XS code needing #undef XS_VERSION
ext/XS-Typemap/Makefile.PL	XS::Typemap extension
ext/XS-Typemap/README		XS::Typemap extension
ext/XS-Typemap/stdio.c		XS::Typemap extension
ext/XS-Typemap/t/Typemap.t	test that typemaps work
ext/XS-Typemap/Typemap.pm	XS::Typemap extension
ext/XS-Typemap/Typemap.xs	XS::Typemap extension
fakesdio.h			stdio in terms of PerlIO
feature.h			Feature header
form.h				Public declarations for formats
generate_uudmap.c		Generate uudmap.h, the uuencode decoding map
git_version.h			Pre-generated git_version.h for OpenBSD
globals.c			File to declare global symbols (for shared library)
globvar.sym			Global variables that need hiding when embedded
gv.c				Glob value code
gv.h				Glob value header
h2pl/cbreak2.pl			cbreak routines using .pl
h2pl/cbreak.pl			cbreak routines using .ph
h2pl/eg/sizeof.ph		Sample sizeof array initialization
h2pl/eg/sys/errno.pl		Sample translated errno.pl
h2pl/eg/sysexits.pl		Sample translated sysexits.pl
h2pl/eg/sys/ioctl.pl		Sample translated ioctl.pl
h2pl/getioctlsizes		Program to extract types from ioctl.h
h2pl/mksizes			Program to make %sizeof array
h2pl/mkvars			Program to make .pl from .ph files
h2pl/README			How to turn .ph files into .pl files
h2pl/tcbreak			cbreak test routine using .ph
h2pl/tcbreak2			cbreak test routine using .pl
haiku/Haiku/Haiku.pm		Haiku extension Perl module
haiku/Haiku/Haiku.xs		Haiku extension external subroutines
haiku/haikuish.h		Header for the Haiku port
haiku/Haiku/Makefile.PL		Haiku extension makefile writer
handy.h				Handy definitions
hints/aix_3.sh			Hints for named architecture
hints/aix_4.sh			Hints for named architecture
hints/aix.sh			Hints for named architecture
hints/altos486.sh		Hints for named architecture
hints/amigaos.sh		Hints for named architecture
hints/atheos.sh			Hints for named architecture
hints/aux_3.sh			Hints for named architecture
hints/bitrig.sh			Hints for named architecture
hints/broken-db.msg		Warning message for systems with broken DB library
hints/bsdos.sh			Hints for named architecture
hints/catamount.sh		Hints for named architecture
hints/convexos.sh		Hints for named architecture
hints/cxux.sh			Hints for named architecture
hints/cygwin.sh			Hints for named architecture
hints/darwin.sh			Hints for named architecture
hints/dcosx.sh			Hints for named architecture
hints/dec_osf.sh		Hints for named architecture
hints/dos_djgpp.sh		Hints for named architecture
hints/dragonfly.sh		Hints for named architecture
hints/dynixptx.sh		Hints for named architecture
hints/dynix.sh			Hints for named architecture
hints/epix.sh			Hints for named architecture
hints/esix4.sh			Hints for named architecture
hints/fps.sh			Hints for named architecture
hints/freebsd.sh		Hints for named architecture
hints/freemint.sh		Hints for named architecture
hints/genix.sh			Hints for named architecture
hints/gnukfreebsd.sh		Hints for named architecture
hints/gnuknetbsd.sh		Hints for named architecture
hints/gnu.sh			Hints for named architecture
hints/greenhills.sh		Hints for named architecture
hints/haiku.sh			Hints for named architecture
hints/hpux.sh			Hints for named architecture
hints/i386.sh			Hints for named architecture
hints/interix.sh		Hints for named architecture
hints/irix_4.sh			Hints for named architecture
hints/irix_5.sh			Hints for named architecture
hints/irix_6_0.sh		Hints for named architecture
hints/irix_6_1.sh		Hints for named architecture
hints/irix_6.sh			Hints for named architecture
hints/isc_2.sh			Hints for named architecture
hints/isc.sh			Hints for named architecture
hints/linux-android.sh		Hints for named architecture
hints/linux.sh			Hints for named architecture
hints/lynxos.sh			Hints for named architecture
hints/midnightbsd.sh		Hints for named architecture
hints/mips.sh			Hints for named architecture
hints/mirbsd.sh			Hints for named architecture
hints/mpc.sh			Hints for named architecture
hints/ncr_tower.sh		Hints for named architecture
hints/netbsd.sh			Hints for named architecture
hints/newsos4.sh		Hints for named architecture
hints/nonstopux.sh		Hints for named architecture
hints/openbsd.sh		Hints for named architecture
hints/opus.sh			Hints for named architecture
hints/os2.sh			Hints for named architecture
hints/os390.sh			Hints for named architecture
hints/os400.sh			Hints for named architecture
hints/posix-bc.sh		Hints for named architecture
hints/powerux.sh		Hints for named architecture
hints/qnx.sh			Hints for named architecture
hints/README.hints		Notes about hints
hints/riscos.sh			Hints for named architecture
hints/sco_2_3_0.sh		Hints for named architecture
hints/sco_2_3_1.sh		Hints for named architecture
hints/sco_2_3_2.sh		Hints for named architecture
hints/sco_2_3_3.sh		Hints for named architecture
hints/sco_2_3_4.sh		Hints for named architecture
hints/sco.sh			Hints for named architecture
hints/solaris_2.sh		Hints for named architecture
hints/stellar.sh		Hints for named architecture
hints/sunos_4_0.sh		Hints for named architecture
hints/sunos_4_1.sh		Hints for named architecture
hints/super-ux.sh		Hints for named architecture
hints/svr4.sh			Hints for named architecture
hints/svr5.sh			Hints for named architecture
hints/t001.c			Test case for gcc bug
hints/ti1500.sh			Hints for named architecture
hints/ultrix_4.sh		Hints for named architecture
hints/umips.sh			Hints for named architecture
hints/unicosmk.sh		Hints for named architecture
hints/unicos.sh			Hints for named architecture
hints/unisysdynix.sh		Hints for named architecture
hints/utekv.sh			Hints for named architecture
hints/uwin.sh			Hints for named architecture
hints/vos.sh			Hints for named architecture
hv.c				Hash value code
hv_func.h			Hash value static inline function header
hv.h				Hash value header
inline.h			Static inline functions
INSTALL				Detailed installation instructions
installhtml			Perl script to install html files for pods
install_lib.pl			functions shared between install* scripts
installman			Perl script to install man pages for pods
installperl			Perl script to do "make install" dirty work
INTERN.h			Included before domestic .h files
intrpvar.h			Variables held in each interpreter instance
invlist_inline.h		Inline functions for handling inversion lists
iperlsys.h			Perl's interface to the system
keywords.c			Perl_keyword(), generated by regen/keywords.pl
keywords.h			The keyword numbers
l1_char_class_tab.h		256 word bit table of character classes (for handy.h)
lib/AnyDBM_File.pm		Perl module to emulate dbmopen
lib/AnyDBM_File.t		See if AnyDBM_File works
lib/B/Deparse-core.t		See if B::Deparse knows when to use CORE::
lib/B/Deparse.pm		Compiler Deparse backend
lib/B/Deparse-subclass.t	See if B::Deparse can be subclassed
lib/B/Deparse.t			See if B::Deparse works
lib/Benchmark.pm		Measure execution time
lib/Benchmark.t			See if Benchmark works
lib/blib.pm			For "use blib"
lib/blib.t			blib.pm test
lib/B/Op_private.pm		Definitions of OP op_private flags
lib/bytes_heavy.pl		Support routines for byte pragma
lib/bytes.pm			Pragma to enable byte operations
lib/bytes.t			bytes.pm test
lib/_charnames.pm		Character names
lib/charnames.pm		Character names
lib/charnames.t			See if character names work
lib/Class/Struct.pm		Declare struct-like datatypes as Perl classes
lib/Class/Struct.t		See if Class::Struct works
lib/Config/Extensions.pm	Convenient hash lookup for built extensions
lib/Config/Extensions.t		See if Config::Extensions works
lib/Config_git.pl		Pre-generated Config_git.pl for OpenBSD
lib/Config.t			See if Config works
lib/CORE.pod			document the CORE namespace
lib/DBM_Filter/compress.pm	DBM Filter to compress keys/values
lib/DBM_Filter/encode.pm	DBM Filter for encoding
lib/DBM_Filter/int32.pm		DBM Filter for creating int32 keys/values
lib/DBM_Filter/null.pm		DBM Filter for null termination
lib/DBM_Filter.pm		DBM Filter module
lib/DBM_Filter/t/01error.t	test DBM_Filter::null
lib/DBM_Filter/t/02core.t	test DBM_Filter::null
lib/DBM_Filter/t/compress.t	test DBM_Filter::compress
lib/DBM_Filter/t/encode.t	test DBM_Filter::encode
lib/DBM_Filter/t/int32.t	test DBM_Filter::int32
lib/DBM_Filter/t/null.t		test DBM_Filter::null
lib/DBM_Filter/t/utf8.t		test DBM_Filter::utf8
lib/DBM_Filter/utf8.pm		DBM Filter for UTF-8 Encoding
lib/dbm_filter_util.pl		Utility functions used by DBM Filter tests
lib/DB.pm			Debugger API (draft)
lib/DB.t			See if DB works
lib/deprecate.pm		A pragma for deprecating modules from the core.
lib/diagnostics.pm		Print verbose diagnostics
lib/diagnostics.t		See if diagnostics.pm works
lib/DirHandle.pm		like FileHandle only for directories
lib/DirHandle.t			See if DirHandle works
lib/dumpvar.pl			A variable dumper
lib/dumpvar.t			A variable dumper tester
lib/English.pm			Readable aliases for short variables
lib/English.t			See if English works
lib/ExtUtils/Embed.pm		Utilities for embedding Perl in C programs
lib/ExtUtils/t/Embed.t		See if ExtUtils::Embed and embedding works
lib/ExtUtils/typemap		Extension interface types
lib/ExtUtils/XSSymSet.pm	on VMS, manage linker symbols when building extensions
lib/feature.pm			Pragma to enable new syntax
lib/feature.t			See if features work
lib/feature/unicode_strings.t	See if feature "unicode_strings" work
lib/File/Basename.pm		Emulate the basename program
lib/File/Basename.t		See if File::Basename works
lib/File/Compare.pm		Emulation of cmp command
lib/File/Compare.t		See if File::Compare works
lib/File/Copy.pm		Emulation of cp command
lib/File/Copy.t			See if File::Copy works
lib/FileHandle.pm		Backward-compatible front end to IO extension
lib/FileHandle.t		See if FileHandle works
lib/File/stat-7896.t		A test for ID 20011110.104
lib/File/stat.pm		By-name interface to Perl's builtin stat
lib/File/stat.t			See if File::stat works
lib/filetest.pm			For "use filetest"
lib/filetest.t			See if filetest works
lib/FindBin.pm			Find name of currently executing program
lib/FindBin.t			See if FindBin works
lib/Getopt/Std.pm		Fetch command options (getopt, getopts)
lib/Getopt/Std.t		See if Getopt::Std and Getopt::Long work
lib/h2ph.t			See if h2ph works like it should
lib/h2xs.t			See if h2xs produces expected lists of files
lib/integer.pm			For "use integer"
lib/integer.t			For "use integer" testing
lib/Internals.t			For Internals::* testing
lib/less.pm			For "use less"
lib/less.t			See if less support works
lib/locale.pm			For "use locale"
lib/locale.t			See if locale support works
lib/meta_notation.pm		Helper for certain /lib .pm's
lib/meta_notation.t		See if meta_notation.t works
lib/Net/hostent.pm		By-name interface to Perl's builtin gethost*
lib/Net/hostent.t		See if Net::hostent works
lib/Net/netent.pm		By-name interface to Perl's builtin getnet*
lib/Net/netent.t		See if Net::netent works
lib/Net/protoent.pm		By-name interface to Perl's builtin getproto*
lib/Net/protoent.t		See if Net::protoent works
lib/Net/servent.pm		By-name interface to Perl's builtin getserv*
lib/Net/servent.t		See if Net::servtent works
lib/open.pm			Pragma to specify default I/O layers
lib/open.t			See if the open pragma works
lib/overload64.t		See if operator overloading works with 64-bit ints
lib/overloading.pm		Pragma to lexically control overloading
lib/overloading.t		Tests for overloading.pm
lib/overload/numbers.pm		Helper for overloading pragma
lib/overload.pm			Module for overloading perl operators
lib/overload.t			See if operator overloading works
lib/perl5db.pl			Perl debugging routines
lib/perl5db.t			Tests for the Perl debugger
lib/perl5db/t/break-on-dot	Test script used by perl5db.t
lib/perl5db/t/breakpoint-bug	Test script used by perl5db.t
lib/perl5db/t/disable-breakpoints-1	Test script used by perl5db.t
lib/perl5db/t/disable-breakpoints-2	Test script used by perl5db.t
lib/perl5db/t/disable-breakpoints-3	Test script used by perl5db.t
lib/perl5db/t/EnableModule.pm	Tests for the Perl debugger
lib/perl5db/t/eval-line-bug	Tests for the Perl debugger
lib/perl5db/t/fact		Tests for the Perl debugger
lib/perl5db/t/filename-line-breakpoint		Tests for the Perl debugger
lib/perl5db/t/load-modules	Tests for the Perl debugger
lib/perl5db/t/lsub-n		Test script used by perl5db.t
lib/perl5db/t/lvalue-bug	Tests for the Perl debugger
lib/perl5db/t/MyModule.pm	Tests for the Perl debugger
lib/perl5db/t/proxy-constants	Tests for the Perl debugger
lib/perl5db/t/rt-104168		Tests for the Perl debugger
lib/perl5db/t/rt-121509-restart-after-chdir		Tests for the Perl debugger
lib/perl5db/t/rt-61222		Tests for the Perl debugger
lib/perl5db/t/rt-66110		Tests for the Perl debugger
lib/perl5db/t/source-cmd-test-no-q.perldb		Tests for the Perl debugger
lib/perl5db/t/source-cmd-test.perldb		Tests for the Perl debugger
lib/perl5db/t/symbol-table-bug	Tests for the Perl debugger
lib/perl5db/t/taint		Tests for the Perl debugger
lib/perl5db/t/test-a-statement-1	Tests for the Perl debugger
lib/perl5db/t/test-a-statement-2	Tests for the Perl debugger
lib/perl5db/t/test-dieLevel-option-1	Tests for the Perl debugger
lib/perl5db/t/test-frame-option-1	Tests for the Perl debugger
lib/perl5db/t/test-l-statement-1	Tests for the Perl debugger
lib/perl5db/t/test-l-statement-2	Tests for the Perl debugger
lib/perl5db/t/test-m-statement-1	Tests for the Perl debugger
lib/perl5db/t/test-passing-at-underscore-to-x-etc	Tests for the Perl debugger
lib/perl5db/t/test-PrintRet-option-1	Tests for the Perl debugger
lib/perl5db/t/test-r-statement	Tests for the Perl debugger
lib/perl5db/t/test-warnLevel-option-1	Tests for the Perl debugger
lib/perl5db/t/test-w-statement-1	Tests for the Perl debugger
lib/perl5db/t/uncalled-subroutine	Tests for the Perl debugger
lib/perl5db/t/with-subroutine		Tests for the Perl debugger
lib/PerlIO.pm			PerlIO support module
lib/Pod/t/InputObjects.t	See if Pod::InputObjects works
lib/Pod/t/Select.t		See if Pod::Select works
lib/Pod/t/Usage.t		See if Pod::Usage works
lib/Pod/t/utils.t		Test for Pod::ParseUtils
lib/SelectSaver.pm		Enforce proper select scoping
lib/SelectSaver.t		See if SelectSaver works
lib/sigtrap.pm			For trapping an abort and giving traceback
lib/sigtrap.t			See if sigtrap works
lib/sort.pm			For "use sort"
lib/sort.t			See if "use sort" works
lib/strict.pm			For "use strict"
lib/strict.t			See if strictures work
lib/subs.pm			Declare overriding subs
lib/subs.t			See if subroutine pseudo-importation works
lib/Symbol.pm			Symbol table manipulation routines
lib/Symbol.t			See if Symbol works
lib/Thread.pm			Thread extensions frontend
lib/Thread.t			Thread extensions frontend tests
lib/Tie/Array.pm		Base class for tied arrays
lib/Tie/Array/push.t		Test for Tie::Array
lib/Tie/Array/splice.t		Test for Tie::Array::SPLICE
lib/Tie/Array/stdpush.t		Test for Tie::StdArray
lib/Tie/Array/std.t		Test for Tie::StdArray
lib/Tie/ExtraHash.t		Test for Tie::ExtraHash (in Tie/Hash.pm)
lib/Tie/Handle.pm		Base class for tied handles
lib/Tie/Handle/stdhandle_from_handle.t	Test for Tie::StdHandle/Handle backwards compat
lib/Tie/Handle/stdhandle.t	Test for Tie::StdHandle
lib/Tie/Hash.pm			Base class for tied hashes
lib/Tie/Hash.t			See if Tie::Hash works
lib/Tie/Scalar.pm		Base class for tied scalars
lib/Tie/Scalar.t		See if Tie::Scalar works
lib/Tie/StdHandle.pm		Tie::StdHandle
lib/Tie/SubstrHash.pm		Compact hash for known key, value and table size
lib/Tie/SubstrHash.t		Test for Tie::SubstrHash
lib/Time/gmtime.pm		By-name interface to Perl's builtin gmtime
lib/Time/gmtime.t		Test for Time::gmtime
lib/Time/localtime.pm		By-name interface to Perl's builtin localtime
lib/Time/localtime.t		Test for Time::localtime
lib/Time/tm.pm			Internal object for Time::{gm,local}time
lib/Unicode/README		Explanation what happened to lib/unicode.
lib/Unicode/UCD.pm		Unicode character database
lib/Unicode/UCD.t		See if Unicode character database works
lib/unicore/ArabicShaping.txt			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/auxiliary/GCBTest.txt			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/auxiliary/GraphemeBreakProperty.txt			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/auxiliary/LBTest.txt			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/auxiliary/SBTest.txt			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/auxiliary/SentenceBreakProperty.txt			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/auxiliary/WBTest.txt			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/auxiliary/WordBreakProperty.txt			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/BidiBrackets.txt			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/BidiMirroring.txt			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/Blocks.txt				Unicode character database
lib/unicore/CaseFolding.txt			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/CJKRadicals.txt			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/CombiningClass.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/CompositionExclusions.txt			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/DAge.txt				Unicode character database
lib/unicore/DCoreProperties.txt			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/Decomposition.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/DNormalizationProps.txt			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/EastAsianWidth.txt			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/EmojiSources.txt			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/extracted/DBidiClass.txt			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/extracted/DBinaryProperties.txt			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/extracted/DCombiningClass.txt			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/extracted/DDecompositionType.txt			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/extracted/DEastAsianWidth.txt			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/extracted/DGeneralCategory.txt			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/extracted/DJoinGroup.txt			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/extracted/DJoinType.txt			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/extracted/DLineBreak.txt			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/extracted/DNumType.txt			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/extracted/DNumValues.txt			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/HangulSyllableType.txt			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/Heavy.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/Index.txt				Unicode character database
lib/unicore/IndicPositionalCategory.txt			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/IndicSyllabicCategory.txt			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/Jamo.txt				Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Age/NA.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Age/V11.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Age/V20.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Age/V30.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Age/V31.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Age/V32.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Age/V40.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Age/V41.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Age/V50.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Age/V51.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Age/V52.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Age/V60.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Age/V61.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Age/V70.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Age/V80.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Alpha/Y.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Bc/AL.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Bc/AN.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Bc/BN.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Bc/B.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Bc/CS.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Bc/EN.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Bc/ES.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Bc/ET.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Bc/L.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Bc/NSM.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Bc/ON.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Bc/R.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Bc/WS.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/BidiC/Y.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/BidiM/Y.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Blk/NB.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Bpt/C.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Bpt/N.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Bpt/O.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Cased/Y.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Ccc/A.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Ccc/AR.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Ccc/ATAR.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Ccc/B.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Ccc/BR.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Ccc/DB.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Ccc/NK.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Ccc/NR.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Ccc/OV.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Ccc/VR.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/CE/Y.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/CI/Y.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/CompEx/Y.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/CWCF/Y.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/CWCM/Y.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/CWKCF/Y.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/CWL/Y.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/CWT/Y.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/CWU/Y.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Dash/Y.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Dep/Y.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Dia/Y.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/DI/Y.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Dt/Com.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Dt/Enc.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Dt/Fin.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Dt/Font.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Dt/Init.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Dt/Iso.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Dt/Med.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Dt/Nar.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Dt/Nb.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Dt/NonCanon.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Dt/Sqr.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Dt/Sub.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Dt/Sup.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Dt/Vert.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Ea/A.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Ea/H.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Ea/Na.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Ea/N.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Ea/W.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Ext/Y.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/GCB/CN.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/GCB/EX.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/GCB/LV.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/GCB/LVT.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/GCB/SM.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/GCB/XX.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Gc/Cf.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Gc/Cn.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Gc/C.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Gc/LC.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Gc/Ll.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Gc/Lm.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Gc/Lo.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Gc/L.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Gc/Lu.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Gc/Mc.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Gc/Me.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Gc/Mn.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Gc/M.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Gc/Nd.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Gc/Nl.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Gc/No.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Gc/N.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Gc/Pd.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Gc/Pe.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Gc/Pf.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Gc/Pi.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Gc/Po.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Gc/P.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Gc/Ps.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Gc/Sc.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Gc/Sk.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Gc/Sm.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Gc/So.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Gc/S.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Gc/Z.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Gc/Zs.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/GrBase/Y.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Hex/Y.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Hst/NA.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Hyphen/T.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/IDC/Y.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Ideo/Y.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/IDS/Y.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/In/2_0.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/In/2_1.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/In/3_0.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/In/3_1.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/In/3_2.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/In/4_0.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/In/4_1.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/In/5_0.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/In/5_1.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/In/5_2.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/In/6_0.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/In/6_1.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/In/6_2.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/In/6_3.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/In/7_0.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/In/8_0.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/InPC/Bottom.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/InPC/LeftAndR.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/InPC/Left.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/InPC/NA.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/InPC/Overstru.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/InPC/Right.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/InPC/TopAndBo.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/InPC/TopAndL2.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/InPC/TopAndLe.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/InPC/TopAndRi.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/InPC/Top.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/InPC/VisualOr.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/InSC/Avagraha.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/InSC/Bindu.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/InSC/Cantilla.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/InSC/Consona2.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/InSC/Consona3.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/InSC/Consona4.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/InSC/Consona5.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/InSC/Consona6.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/InSC/Consonan.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/InSC/Invisibl.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/InSC/Nukta.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/InSC/Number.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/InSC/Other.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/InSC/PureKill.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/InSC/Syllable.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/InSC/ToneMark.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/InSC/Virama.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/InSC/Visarga.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/InSC/VowelDep.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/InSC/VowelInd.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/InSC/Vowel.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Jg/Ain.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Jg/Alef.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Jg/Beh.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Jg/Dal.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Jg/FarsiYeh.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Jg/Feh.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Jg/Gaf.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Jg/Hah.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Jg/Kaf.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Jg/Lam.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Jg/NoJoinin.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Jg/Qaf.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Jg/Reh.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Jg/Sad.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Jg/Seen.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Jg/Waw.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Jg/Yeh.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Jt/C.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Jt/D.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Jt/R.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Jt/T.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Jt/U.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Lb/AI.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Lb/AL.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Lb/BA.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Lb/BB.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Lb/CJ.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Lb/CL.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Lb/CM.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Lb/EX.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Lb/GL.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Lb/ID.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Lb/IN.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Lb/IS.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Lb/NS.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Lb/OP.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Lb/PO.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Lb/PR.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Lb/QU.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Lb/SA.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Lb/XX.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Lower/Y.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Math/Y.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/NFCQC/M.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/NFCQC/Y.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/NFDQC/N.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/NFDQC/Y.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/NFKCQC/N.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/NFKCQC/Y.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/NFKDQC/N.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/NFKDQC/Y.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Nt/Di.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Nt/None.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Nt/Nu.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Nv/0.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Nv/10000.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Nv/1000.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Nv/100.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Nv/10.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Nv/11.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Nv/12.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Nv/1_2.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Nv/13.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Nv/1_3.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Nv/14.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Nv/1_4.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Nv/15.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Nv/16.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Nv/17.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Nv/18.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Nv/1_8.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Nv/19.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Nv/1.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Nv/200.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Nv/20.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Nv/2_3.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Nv/2.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Nv/300.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Nv/30.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Nv/3_4.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Nv/3.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Nv/400.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Nv/40.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Nv/4.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Nv/50000.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Nv/5000.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Nv/500.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Nv/50.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Nv/5.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Nv/600.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Nv/60.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Nv/6.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Nv/700.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Nv/70.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Nv/7.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Nv/800.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Nv/80.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Nv/8.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Nv/900.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Nv/90.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Nv/9.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/PatSyn/Y.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Perl/Alnum.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Perl/Assigned.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Perl/Blank.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Perl/Graph.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Perl/_PerlAny.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Perl/_PerlCh2.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Perl/_PerlCha.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Perl/_PerlFol.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Perl/_PerlIDC.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Perl/_PerlIDS.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Perl/_PerlNch.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Perl/_PerlPat.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Perl/_PerlPr2.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Perl/_PerlPro.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Perl/_PerlQuo.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Perl/PerlWord.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Perl/PosixPun.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Perl/Print.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Perl/SpacePer.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Perl/Title.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Perl/Word.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Perl/XPosixPu.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/QMark/Y.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/SB/AT.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/SB/CL.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/SB/EX.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/SB/FO.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/SB/LE.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/SB/LO.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/SB/NU.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/SB/SC.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/SB/Sp.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/SB/ST.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/SB/UP.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/SB/XX.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Sc/Arab.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Sc/Armn.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Sc/Beng.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Sc/Cham.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Sc/Cprt.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Sc/Cyrl.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Sc/Deva.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Sc/Dupl.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Sc/Ethi.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Sc/Geor.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Sc/Gran.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Sc/Grek.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Sc/Gujr.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Sc/Guru.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Sc/Hang.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Sc/Han.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Sc/Hebr.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Sc/Hira.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Sc/Hmng.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Sc/Kana.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Sc/Khar.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Sc/Khmr.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Sc/Knda.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Sc/Lana.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Sc/Lao.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Sc/Latn.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Sc/Limb.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Sc/Linb.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Sc/Mlym.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Sc/Mong.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Sc/Mult.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Sc/Orya.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Sc/Sinh.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Sc/Talu.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Sc/Taml.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Sc/Telu.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Sc/Tibt.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Scx/Arab.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Scx/Armn.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Scx/Beng.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Scx/Bopo.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Scx/Cakm.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Scx/Copt.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Scx/Cprt.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Scx/Cyrl.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Scx/Deva.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Scx/Dupl.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Scx/Geor.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Scx/Glag.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Scx/Gran.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Scx/Grek.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Scx/Gujr.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Scx/Guru.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Scx/Hang.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Scx/Han.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Scx/Hira.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Scx/Kana.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Scx/Knda.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Scx/Latn.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Scx/Limb.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Scx/Linb.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Scx/Mlym.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Scx/Mong.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Scx/Mult.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Scx/Mymr.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Scx/Orya.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Scx/Phlp.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Scx/Shrd.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Scx/Sind.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Scx/Sinh.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Sc/Xsux.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Scx/Syrc.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Scx/Tagb.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Scx/Takr.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Scx/Taml.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Scx/Telu.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Scx/Thaa.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Scx/Tirh.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Scx/Yi.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Scx/Zinh.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Scx/Zyyy.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Sc/Zinh.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Sc/Zyyy.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Sc/Zzzz.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/SD/Y.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/STerm/Y.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Term/Y.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/UIdeo/Y.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/Upper/Y.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/WB/EX.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/WB/FO.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/WB/HL.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/WB/KA.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/WB/LE.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/WB/MB.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/WB/ML.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/WB/MN.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/WB/NU.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/WB/XX.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/XIDC/Y.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/lib/XIDS/Y.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/LineBreak.txt			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/Makefile				Unicode character database
lib/unicore/mktables				Unicode character database generator
lib/unicore/mktables.lst			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/NameAliases.txt			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/NamedSequences.txt			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/NamedSqProv.txt			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/Name.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/Name.pm			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/NamesList.txt			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/NormalizationCorrections.txt			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/PropertyAliases.txt			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/PropList.txt			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/PropValueAliases.txt			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/README.perl				Unicode character database
lib/unicore/ReadMe.txt				Unicode character database info
lib/unicore/ScriptExtensions.txt			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/Scripts.txt				Unicode character database
lib/unicore/SpecialCasing.txt			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/StandardizedVariants.txt			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/TestProp.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/To/Age.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/To/Bc.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/To/Bmg.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/To/Bpb.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/To/Bpt.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/To/Cf.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/To/Digit.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/To/Ea.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/To/Fold.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/To/GCB.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/To/Gc.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/To/Hst.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/To/InPC.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/To/InSC.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/To/Isc.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/To/Jg.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/To/Jt.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/To/Lb.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/To/Lc.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/To/Lower.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/To/Na1.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/To/NameAlia.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/To/NFCQC.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/To/NFDQC.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/To/NFKCCF.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/To/NFKCQC.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/To/NFKDQC.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/To/Nt.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/To/Nv.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/To/PerlDeci.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/To/_PerlLB.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/To/_PerlWB.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/To/SB.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/To/Sc.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/To/Scx.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/To/Tc.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/To/Title.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/To/Uc.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/To/Upper.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/To/WB.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/UCD.pl			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/UnicodeData.txt			Unicode character database
lib/unicore/version				The version of the Unicode
lib/UNIVERSAL.pm		Base class for ALL classes
lib/User/grent.pm		By-name interface to Perl's builtin getgr*
lib/User/grent.t		See if User::grwent works
lib/User/pwent.pm		By-name interface to Perl's builtin getpw*
lib/User/pwent.t		See if User::pwent works
lib/utf8_heavy.pl		Support routines for utf8 pragma
lib/utf8.pm			Pragma to control Unicode support
lib/utf8.t			See if utf8 operations work
lib/vars_carp.t			See if "use vars" doesn't load Carp.pm per default
lib/vars.pm			Declare pseudo-imported global variables
lib/vars.t			See if "use vars" works
lib/vmsish.pm			Control VMS-specific behavior of Perl core
lib/vmsish.t			Tests for vmsish.pm
lib/warnings.pm			For "use warnings"
lib/warnings/register.pm	For "use warnings::register"
lib/warnings.t			See if warning controls work
locale.c			locale-specific utility functions
makedef.pl			Create symbol export lists for linking
makedepend.SH			Precursor to makedepend
make_ext.pl			Used by Makefile to execute extension Makefiles
Makefile.micro			microperl Makefile
Makefile.SH			A script that generates Makefile
make_patchnum.pl		Script to generate git_version.h and lib/Config_git.pl files for all OS'es
malloc.c			A version of malloc you might not want
malloc_ctl.h			A version of malloc you might not want
MANIFEST			This list of files
mathoms.c			A home for binary-compatible code artifacts
metaconfig.h			Control file for the metaconfig process
metaconfig.SH			Control file for the metaconfig process
META.json			Distribution meta-data in JSON
META.yml			Distribution meta-data in YAML
mg.c				Magic code
mg.h				Magic header
mg_names.inc			Generated magic names used by dump.c
mg_raw.h			Generated magic data used by generate_uudmap.c
mg_vtable.h			Generated magic vtable data
miniperlmain.c			Basic perl w/o dynamic loading or extensions
mkppport			A script that distributes ppport.h
mkppport.lst			List of extensions that need a ppport.h
mro_core.c				Method Resolution Order code
myconfig.SH			Prints summary of the current configuration
mydtrace.h			Support for optional DTrace probes
NetWare/bat/Buildtype.bat	NetWare port
NetWare/bat/SetCodeWar.bat	NetWare port
NetWare/bat/Setnlmsdk.bat	NetWare port
NetWare/bat/SetNWBld.bat	NetWare port
NetWare/bat/ToggleD2.bat	NetWare port
NetWare/CLIBsdio.h		NetWare port
NetWare/CLIBstr.h		NetWare port
NetWare/CLIBstuf.c		NetWare port
NetWare/CLIBstuf.h		NetWare port
NetWare/config_h.PL		NetWare port
NetWare/config_H.wc		NetWare port
NetWare/config_sh.PL		NetWare port
NetWare/config.wc		NetWare port
NetWare/deb.h			NetWare port
NetWare/dl_netware.xs		NetWare port
NetWare/intdef.h		NetWare port
NetWare/interface.c		NetWare port
NetWare/interface.cpp		NetWare port
NetWare/interface.h		NetWare port
NetWare/iperlhost.h		NetWare port
NetWare/Main.c			NetWare port
NetWare/Makefile		NetWare port
NetWare/MP.imp			NetWare port
NetWare/netware.h		NetWare port
NetWare/nw5.c			NetWare port
NetWare/nw5iop.h		NetWare port
NetWare/nw5sck.c		NetWare port
NetWare/nw5sck.h		NetWare port
NetWare/nw5thread.c		NetWare port
NetWare/nw5thread.h		NetWare port
NetWare/nwhashcls.cpp		NetWare port
NetWare/nwhashcls.h		NetWare port
NetWare/Nwmain.c		NetWare port
NetWare/nwperlhost.h		NetWare port
NetWare/nwperlsys.c		NetWare port
NetWare/nwperlsys.h		NetWare port
NetWare/Nwpipe.c		NetWare port
NetWare/nwpipe.h		NetWare port
NetWare/nwplglob.c		NetWare port
NetWare/nwplglob.h		NetWare port
NetWare/nwstdio.h		NetWare port
NetWare/NWTInfo.c		NetWare port
NetWare/nwtinfo.h		NetWare port
NetWare/NWUtil.c		NetWare port
NetWare/nwutil.h		NetWare port
NetWare/nwvmem.h		NetWare port
NetWare/perllib.cpp		NetWare port
NetWare/splittree.pl		NetWare port
NetWare/sv_nw.c			NetWare port
NetWare/testnlm/echo/echo.c	NetWare port
NetWare/testnlm/type/type.c	NetWare port
NetWare/t/NWModify.pl		NetWare port
NetWare/t/NWScripts.pl		NetWare port
NetWare/t/Readme.txt		NetWare port
NetWare/win32ish.h		NetWare port
nostdio.h			Cause compile error on stdio calls
numeric.c			Miscellaneous numeric conversion routines
op.c				Opcode syntax tree code
opcode.h			Automatically generated opcode header
op.h				Opcode syntax tree header
opnames.h			Automatically generated opcode header
op_reg_common.h			Common parts of op.h, regexp.h header
os2/Changes			Changelog for OS/2 port
os2/diff.configure		Patches to Configure
os2/dlfcn.h			Addon for dl_open
os2/dl_os2.c			Addon for dl_open
os2/Makefile.SHs		Shared library generation for OS/2
os2/os2add.sym			Overriding symbols to export
os2/os2_base.t			Additional tests for builtin methods
os2/os2.c			Additional code for OS/2
os2/os2ish.h			Header for OS/2
os2/OS2/OS2-ExtAttr/Changes	EA access module
os2/OS2/OS2-ExtAttr/ExtAttr.pm	EA access module
os2/OS2/OS2-ExtAttr/ExtAttr.xs	EA access module
os2/OS2/OS2-ExtAttr/Makefile.PL	EA access module
os2/OS2/OS2-ExtAttr/MANIFEST	EA access module
os2/OS2/OS2-ExtAttr/myea.h	EA access module
os2/OS2/OS2-ExtAttr/t/os2_ea.t	EA access module
os2/OS2/OS2-ExtAttr/typemap	EA access module
os2/OS2/OS2-PrfDB/Changes	System database access module
os2/OS2/OS2-PrfDB/Makefile.PL	System database access module
os2/OS2/OS2-PrfDB/MANIFEST	System database access module
os2/OS2/OS2-PrfDB/PrfDB.pm	System database access module
os2/OS2/OS2-PrfDB/PrfDB.xs	System database access module
os2/OS2/OS2-PrfDB/t/os2_prfdb.t	System database access module
os2/OS2/OS2-Process/Makefile.PL	system() constants in a module
os2/OS2/OS2-Process/MANIFEST	system() constants in a module
os2/OS2/OS2-Process/Process.pm	system() constants in a module
os2/OS2/OS2-Process/Process.xs	system() constants in a module
os2/OS2/OS2-Process/t/os2_atoms.t	Test for OS2::Process
os2/OS2/OS2-Process/t/os2_clipboard.t	Test for OS2::Process
os2/OS2/OS2-Process/t/os2_process_kid.t	Tests
os2/OS2/OS2-Process/t/os2_process.t	Tests
os2/OS2/OS2-Process/t/os2_process_text.t	Tests
os2/OS2/OS2-REXX/Changes		DLL access module
os2/OS2/OS2-REXX/DLL/Changes	DLL access module
os2/OS2/OS2-REXX/DLL/DLL.pm	DLL access module
os2/OS2/OS2-REXX/DLL/DLL.xs	DLL access module
os2/OS2/OS2-REXX/DLL/Makefile.PL	DLL access module
os2/OS2/OS2-REXX/DLL/MANIFEST	DLL access module
os2/OS2/OS2-REXX/Makefile.PL	DLL access module
os2/OS2/OS2-REXX/MANIFEST	DLL access module
os2/OS2/OS2-REXX/REXX.pm	DLL access module
os2/OS2/OS2-REXX/REXX.xs	DLL access module
os2/OS2/OS2-REXX/t/rx_cmprt.t	DLL access module
os2/OS2/OS2-REXX/t/rx_dllld.t	DLL access module
os2/OS2/OS2-REXX/t/rx_emxrv.t	DLL access module
os2/OS2/OS2-REXX/t/rx_objcall.t	DLL access module
os2/OS2/OS2-REXX/t/rx_sql.test	DLL access module
os2/OS2/OS2-REXX/t/rx_tiesql.test	DLL access module
os2/OS2/OS2-REXX/t/rx_tievar.t	DLL access module
os2/OS2/OS2-REXX/t/rx_tieydb.t	DLL access module
os2/OS2/OS2-REXX/t/rx_varset.t	DLL access module
os2/OS2/OS2-REXX/t/rx_vrexx.t	DLL access module
os2/os2_pipe.t			Tests for pipe creation logic
os2/os2.sym			Additional symbols to export
os2/os2thread.h			pthread-like typedefs
os2/OS2/typemap			Common typemap for OS/2 types
os2/perl2cmd.pl			Corrects installed binaries under OS/2
os2/perlrexx.c			Support perl interpreter embedded in REXX
os2/perlrexx.cmd		Test perl interpreter embedded in REXX
overload.h			generated overload enum (public)
overload.inc			generated overload name table (implementation)
packsizetables.inc		The generated packprops array used in pp_pack.c
pad.c				Scratchpad functions
pad.h				Scratchpad headers
parser.h			parser object header
patchlevel.h			The current patch level of perl
perlapi.c			Perl API functions
perlapi.h			Perl API function declarations
perl.c				main()
perldtrace.d			D script for Perl probes
perl.h				Global declarations
perlio.c			C code for PerlIO abstraction
perlio.h			PerlIO abstraction
perliol.h			PerlIO Layer definition
perlio.sym			Symbols for PerlIO abstraction
perlsdio.h			Fake stdio using perlio
perlvars.h			Global variables
perly.act			parser actions; derived from perly.y
perly.c				parser code (NOT derived from perly.y)
perly.h				header file for perly.c; derived from perly.y
perly.tab			parser state tables; derived from perly.y
perly.y				Yacc grammar for perl
plan9/aperl			Shell to make Perl error messages Acme-friendly
plan9/arpa/inet.h		Plan9 port: replacement C header file
plan9/buildinfo			Plan9 port: configuration information
plan9/config_h.sample		Plan9 port: 5.8.0 sample config.h
plan9/config.plan9		Plan9 port: config.h template
plan9/config_sh.sample		Plan9 port: 5.8.0 sample config.sh
plan9/exclude			Plan9 port: tests to skip
plan9/fndvers			Plan9 port: update Perl version in config.plan9
plan9/genconfig.pl		Plan9 port: generate config.sh
plan9/mkfile			Plan9 port: Mk driver for build
plan9/myconfig.plan9		Plan9 port: script to print config summary
plan9/plan9.c			Plan9 port: Plan9-specific C routines
plan9/plan9ish.h		Plan9 port: Plan9-specific C header file
plan9/setup.rc			Plan9 port: script for easy build+install
plan9/versnum			Plan9 port: script to print version number
pod/buildtoc			Generate pod/perltoc.pod and pod/roffitall
pod/Makefile.SH			generate Makefile which makes pods into something else
pod/perl5004delta.pod		Perl changes in version 5.004
pod/perl5005delta.pod		Perl changes in version 5.005
pod/perl5100delta.pod		Perl changes in version 5.10.0
pod/perl5101delta.pod		Perl changes in version 5.10.1
pod/perl5120delta.pod		Perl changes in version 5.12.0
pod/perl5121delta.pod		Perl changes in version 5.12.1
pod/perl5122delta.pod		Perl changes in version 5.12.2
pod/perl5123delta.pod		Perl changes in version 5.12.3
pod/perl5124delta.pod		Perl changes in version 5.12.4
pod/perl5125delta.pod		Perl changes in version 5.12.5
pod/perl5140delta.pod		Perl changes in version 5.14.0
pod/perl5141delta.pod		Perl changes in version 5.14.1
pod/perl5142delta.pod		Perl changes in version 5.14.2
pod/perl5143delta.pod		Perl changes in version 5.14.3
pod/perl5144delta.pod		Perl changes in version 5.14.4
pod/perl5160delta.pod		Perl changes in version 5.16.0
pod/perl5161delta.pod		Perl changes in version 5.16.1
pod/perl5162delta.pod		Perl changes in version 5.16.2
pod/perl5163delta.pod		Perl changes in version 5.16.3
pod/perl5180delta.pod		Perl changes in version 5.18.0
pod/perl5181delta.pod		Perl changes in version 5.18.1
pod/perl5182delta.pod		Perl changes in version 5.18.2
pod/perl5184delta.pod		Perl changes in version 5.18.4
pod/perl5200delta.pod		Perl changes in version 5.20.0
pod/perl5201delta.pod		Perl changes in version 5.20.1
pod/perl5202delta.pod		Perl changes in version 5.20.2
pod/perl5203delta.pod		Perl changes in version 5.20.3
pod/perl5220delta.pod		Perl changes in version 5.22.0
pod/perl5221delta.pod		Perl changes in version 5.22.1
pod/perl5222delta.pod		Perl changes in version 5.22.2
pod/perl5223delta.pod		Perl changes in version 5.22.3
pod/perl5224delta.pod		Perl changes in version 5.22.4
pod/perl5240delta.pod		Perl changes in version 5.24.0
pod/perl5241delta.pod		Perl changes in version 5.24.1
pod/perl5242delta.pod		Perl changes in version 5.24.2
pod/perl561delta.pod		Perl changes in version 5.6.1
pod/perl56delta.pod		Perl changes in version 5.6
pod/perl581delta.pod		Perl changes in version 5.8.1
pod/perl582delta.pod		Perl changes in version 5.8.2
pod/perl583delta.pod		Perl changes in version 5.8.3
pod/perl584delta.pod		Perl changes in version 5.8.4
pod/perl585delta.pod		Perl changes in version 5.8.5
pod/perl586delta.pod		Perl changes in version 5.8.6
pod/perl587delta.pod		Perl changes in version 5.8.7
pod/perl588delta.pod		Perl changes in version 5.8.8
pod/perl589delta.pod		Perl changes in version 5.8.9
pod/perl58delta.pod		Perl changes in version 5.8.0
pod/perlapio.pod		Perl internal IO abstraction interface
pod/perlartistic.pod		Perl Artistic License
pod/perlbook.pod		Perl book information
pod/perlboot.pod		
pod/perlbot.pod			
pod/perlcall.pod		Perl calling conventions from C
pod/perlcheat.pod		Perl cheat sheet
pod/perlclib.pod		Internal replacements for standard C library functions
pod/perlcommunity.pod		Perl community information
pod/perldata.pod		Perl data structures
pod/perldbmfilter.pod		Perl DBM filters
pod/perldebguts.pod		Perl debugging guts and tips
pod/perldebtut.pod		Perl debugging tutorial
pod/perldebug.pod		Perl debugging
pod/perldelta.pod		Perl changes since previous version
pod/perldiag.pod		Perl diagnostic messages
pod/perldsc.pod			Perl data structures intro
pod/perldtrace.pod		Perl's support for DTrace
pod/perlebcdic.pod		Considerations for running Perl on EBCDIC platforms
pod/perlembed.pod		Perl ways to embed perl in your C or C++ application
pod/perlexperiment.pod		A listing of experimental features in Perl
pod/perlfilter.pod		Perl source filters
pod/perlfork.pod		Perl fork() information
pod/perlform.pod		Perl formats
pod/perlfunc.pod		Perl built-in functions
pod/perlgit.pod			Using git with the Perl repository
pod/perlgpl.pod			GNU General Public License
pod/perlguts.pod		Perl internal functions for those doing extensions
pod/perlhack.pod		Perl hackers guide
pod/perlhacktips.pod		Tips for Perl core C code hacking
pod/perlhacktut.pod		Walk through the creation of a simple C code patch
pod/perlhist.pod		Perl history records
pod/perlinterp.pod		Overview of the Perl interpreter source and how it works
pod/perlintro.pod		Perl introduction for beginners
pod/perliol.pod			C API for Perl's implementation of IO in Layers
pod/perlipc.pod			Perl interprocess communication
pod/perllexwarn.pod		Perl warnings and their control
pod/perllocale.pod		Perl locale support
pod/perllol.pod			Perl data structures: arrays of arrays
pod/perlmodinstall.pod		Perl modules: how to install from CPAN
pod/perlmodlib.PL		Generate pod/perlmodlib.pod
pod/perlmod.pod			Perl modules: how they work
pod/perlmodstyle.pod		Perl modules: how to write modules with style
pod/perlmroapi.pod		Perl method resolution plugin interface
pod/perlnewmod.pod		Perl modules: preparing a new module for distribution
pod/perlnumber.pod		Perl number semantics
pod/perlobj.pod			Perl objects
pod/perlootut.pod		Perl OO tutorial for beginners
pod/perlopentut.pod		Perl open() tutorial
pod/perlop.pod			Perl operators and precedence
pod/perlpacktut.pod		Perl pack() and unpack() tutorial
pod/perlperf.pod		Perl Performance and Optimization Techniques
pod/perl.pod			Perl overview (this section)
pod/perlpod.pod			Perl plain old documentation
pod/perlpodspec.pod		Perl plain old documentation format specification
pod/perlpodstyle.pod		Perl POD style guide
pod/perlpolicy.pod		Perl development policies
pod/perlport.pod		Perl portability guide
pod/perlpragma.pod		Perl modules: writing a user pragma
pod/perlreapi.pod		Perl regular expression plugin interface
pod/perlrebackslash.pod		Perl regular expression backslash sequences
pod/perlrecharclass.pod		Perl regular expression character classes
pod/perlref.pod			Perl references, the rest of the story
pod/perlreftut.pod		Perl references short introduction
pod/perlreguts.pod		Perl regular expression engine internals
pod/perlre.pod			Perl regular expressions, the rest of the story
pod/perlrepository.pod		
pod/perlrequick.pod		Perl regular expressions quick start
pod/perlreref.pod		Perl regular expressions quick reference
pod/perlretut.pod		Perl regular expressions tutorial
pod/perlrun.pod			Perl execution and options
pod/perlsec.pod			Perl security
pod/perlsource.pod		Guide to the Perl source tree
pod/perlstyle.pod		Perl style guide
pod/perlsub.pod			Perl subroutines
pod/perlsyn.pod			Perl syntax
pod/perlthrtut.pod		Perl threads tutorial
pod/perltie.pod			Perl objects hidden behind simple variables
pod/perltodo.pod		
pod/perltooc.pod		
pod/perltoot.pod		
pod/perltrap.pod		Perl traps for the unwary
pod/perlunicode.pod		Perl Unicode support
pod/perlunicook.pod		Perl Unicode cookbook
pod/perlunifaq.pod		Perl Unicode FAQ
pod/perluniintro.pod		Perl Unicode introduction
pod/perluniprops.pod		Index of Unicode properties in Perl
pod/perlunitut.pod		Perl Unicode tutorial
pod/perlutil.pod		utilities packaged with the Perl distribution
pod/perlvar.pod			Perl predefined variables
pod/perlvms.pod			Perl notes for VMS
pod/rofftoc			Generate a table of contents in troff format
pod/splitman			Splits perlfunc into multiple man pages
pod/splitpod			Splits perlfunc into multiple pod pages
Policy_sh.SH			Hold site-wide preferences between Configure runs.
Porting/acknowledgements.pl	Generate perldelta acknowledgements text
Porting/add-package.pl		Add/Update CPAN modules that are part of Core
Porting/bench.pl		Run benchmarks against t/perf/benchmarks
Porting/bisect-example.sh	Example script to use with git bisect run
Porting/bisect.pl		A tool to make bisecting easy
Porting/bisect-runner.pl	Tool to be called by git bisect run
Porting/bump-perl-version	bump the perl version in relevant files
Porting/check83.pl		Check whether we are 8.3-friendly
Porting/checkansi.pl		Check source code for ANSI-C violations
Porting/checkAUTHORS.pl		Check that the AUTHORS file is complete
Porting/checkcfguse.pl		Check that config symbols are being used
Porting/checkcfgvar.pl		Check that config scripts define all symbols
Porting/check-cpan-pollution	Check for commits that may wrongly touch CPAN distros
Porting/checkpodencoding.pl	Check POD encoding
Porting/checkURL.pl		Check whether we have working URLs
Porting/checkVERSION.pl		Check whether we have $VERSIONs
Porting/cherrymaint		Command line tool for updating cherrymaint
Porting/cmpVERSION.pl		Compare whether two trees have changed modules
Porting/config_H		Sample config.h
Porting/config_h.pl		Reorder config_h.SH after metaconfig
Porting/config.sh		Sample config.sh
Porting/core-cpan-diff		Compare core distros with their CPAN equivalents
Porting/corecpan.pl		Reports outdated dual-lived modules
Porting/corelist-diff		Tool to produce corelist diffs
Porting/corelist-perldelta.pl	Generates data perldelta from Module::CoreList
Porting/corelist.pl		Generates data for Module::CoreList
Porting/deparse-skips.txt	List of test files to ignore/skip for deparse tests.
Porting/epigraphs.pod		the release epigraphs used over the years
Porting/exec-bit.txt		List of files that get +x in release tarball
Porting/exercise_makedef.pl	Brute force testing for makedef.pl
Porting/expand-macro.pl		A tool to expand C macro definitions in the Perl source
Porting/findrfuncs		Find reentrant variants of functions used in an executable
Porting/git-deltatool		Mark commits for perldelta in git notes
Porting/git-find-p4-change	Find the change for a p4 change number
Porting/git-make-p4-refs	Output git refs for each p4 change number, suitable for appending to .git/packed-refs
Porting/GitUtils.pm		Generate the contents of a .patch file
Porting/Glossary		Glossary of config.sh variables
Porting/how_to_write_a_perldelta.pod	Bluffer's guide to writing a perldelta.
Porting/leakfinder.pl		Hacky script for finding memory leaks
Porting/Maintainers		Program to pretty print info in Maintainers.pl
Porting/Maintainers.pl		Information about maintainers
Porting/Maintainers.pm		Library to pretty print info in Maintainers.pl
Porting/make_dot_patch.pl	Make a .patch file from a git WD
Porting/makemeta		Create the top-level META.yml
Porting/make_modlib_cpan.pl	Generates the list of CPAN sites in perlmodlib
Porting/makerel			Release making utility
Porting/make-rmg-checklist	Generates a checklist 4 the release manager
Porting/make_snapshot.pl	Make a tgz snapshot of our tree with a .patch file in it
Porting/manicheck		Check against MANIFEST
Porting/manisort		Sort the MANIFEST
Porting/new-perldelta.pl	Generate a new perldelta
Porting/newtests-perldelta.pl	Generate Perldelta stub for newly added tests
Porting/perldelta_template.pod	Template for creating new perldelta.pod files
Porting/perlhist_calculate.pl		Perform calculations to update perlhist
Porting/pod_lib.pl		Code for handling generated pods
Porting/pod_rules.pl		generate lists of pod files for Makefiles
Porting/podtidy			Reformat pod using Pod::Tidy
Porting/pumpkin.pod		Guidelines and hints for Perl maintainers
Porting/README.pod			Outline of contents of Porting directory
Porting/README.y2038		Perl notes for the 2038 fix
Porting/release_announcement_template.txt
Porting/release_managers_guide.pod	Release Manager's Guide
Porting/release_schedule.pod	Schedule for future releases
Porting/rt_list_patches		A tool to help you apply patches from RT
Porting/sort_perldiag.pl	Keep our diagnostics orderly
Porting/sync-with-cpan		Sync with CPAN
Porting/timecheck2.c		Test program for the 2038 fix
Porting/timecheck.c		Test program for the 2038 fix
Porting/todo.pod		Perl things to do
Porting/valgrindpp.pl		Summarize valgrind reports
pp.c				Push/Pop code
pp_ctl.c			Push/Pop code for control flow
pp.h				Push/Pop code defs
pp_hot.c			Push/Pop code for heavily used opcodes
pp_pack.c			Push/Pop code for pack/unpack
pp_proto.h			C++ definitions for Push/Pop code
pp_sort.c			Push/Pop code for sort
pp_sys.c			Push/Pop code for system interaction
proto.h				Prototypes
qnx/ar				QNX implementation of "ar" utility
qnx/cpp				QNX implementation of preprocessor filter
qnx/qnx.c			QNX silent matherr callback
README				The Instructions
README.aix			Perl notes for AIX
README.amiga			Perl notes for AmigaOS
README.android			Perl notes for Android
README.bs2000			Perl notes for POSIX-BC BS2000
README.ce			Perl notes for WinCE
README.cn			Perl for Simplified Chinese (in EUC-CN)
README.cygwin			Perl notes for Cygwin
README.dos			Perl notes for DOS
README.freebsd			Perl notes for FreeBSD
README.haiku			Perl notes for Haiku
README.hpux			Perl notes for HP-UX
README.hurd			Perl notes for Hurd
README.irix			Perl notes for Irix
README.jp			Perl for Japanese (in EUC-JP)
README.ko			Perl for Korean (in EUC-KR)
README.linux			Perl notes for Linux
README.macos			Perl notes for Mac OS (Classic)
README.macosx			Perl notes for Mac OS X
README.micro			Notes about microperl
README.netware			Perl notes for NetWare
README.openbsd			Perl notes for OpenBSD
README.os2			Perl notes for OS/2
README.os390			Perl notes for OS/390
README.os400			Perl notes for OS/400
README.plan9			Perl notes for Plan 9
README.qnx			Perl notes for QNX
README.riscos			Perl notes for RISC OS
README.solaris			Perl notes for Solaris
README.symbian			Perl notes for Symbian
README.synology			Perl notes for Synology
README.tru64			Perl notes for Tru64
README.tw			Perl for Traditional Chinese (in Big5)
README.vms			Notes about installing the VMS port
README.vos			Perl notes for Stratus VOS
README.win32			Perl notes for Windows
reentr.c			Reentrant interfaces
reentr.h			Reentrant interfaces
regcharclass.h			Generated by regen/regcharclass.pl
regcomp.c			Regular expression compiler
regcomp.h			Private declarations for above
regcomp.sym			Data for regnodes.h
regen/charset_translations.pl	Character set utilities
regen/ebcdic.pl			Generates ebcdic_tables.h
regen/embed_lib.pl		Reads embed.fnc and regen/opcodes
regen/embed.pl			Produces {embed,embedvar,proto}.h
regen/feature.pl		Generates feature.pm
regen/genpacksizetables.pl	Generate the size tables for pack/unpack
regen/keywords.pl		Program to write keywords.h
regen/lib_cleanup.pl		Generate lib/.gitignore from MANIFEST
regen/mg_vtable.pl		generate mg_vtable.h
regen/miniperlmain.pl		generate miniperlmain.c
regen/mk_invlists.pl		Generates charclass_invlists.h
regen/mk_PL_charclass.pl	Populate the PL_charclass table
regen/opcode.pl			Opcode header generator
regen/opcodes			Opcode data
regen/op_private		Definitions of bits in an OP's op_private field
regen/overload.pl		generate overload.h
regen_perly.pl			generate perly.{act,h,tab} from perly.y
regen.pl			Run all scripts that (re)generate files
regen/reentr.pl			Reentrant interfaces
regen/regcharclass_multi_char_folds.pl	Generate input for regcharclass.pl
regen/regcharclass.pl		Generate regcharclass.h from inline data
regen/regcomp.pl		Builder of regnodes.h
regen/regen_lib.pl		Common file routines for generator scripts
regen/uconfig_h.pl		generate uconfig.h (requires /bin/sh)
regen/unicode_constants.pl	generate unicode_constants.h
regen/warnings.pl		Program to write warnings.h and lib/warnings.pm
regexec.c			Regular expression evaluator
regexp.h			Public declarations for the above
regnodes.h			Description of nodes of RE engine
run.c				The interpreter loop
runtests.SH			A script that generates runtests
scope.c				Scope entry and exit code
scope.h				Scope entry and exit header
sv.c				Scalar value code
sv.h				Scalar value header
symbian/bld.inf			Symbian sample app build config
symbian/config.pl		Configuration script for Symbian
symbian/config.sh		Configuration data for Symbian
symbian/cwd.pl			Helper code for config.pl
symbian/demo_pl			"Archive" of demo code
symbian/ext/Moped/Msg/bld.inf	Demo extension build configuration
symbian/ext/Moped/Msg/location.pl	Demo extension script
symbian/ext/Moped/Msg/Msg.mmp	Demo extension building
symbian/ext/Moped/Msg/Msg.pkg	Demo extension packaging
symbian/ext/Moped/Msg/Msg.pm	Demo extension Perl glue
symbian/ext/Moped/Msg/Msg.xs	Demo extension code
symbian/ext/Moped/Msg/README	Demo extension documentation
symbian/find_writeable_data.pl	Development utility
symbian/hexdump.pl		Helper for sisify.pl updating
symbian/install.cfg		Installation instructions
symbian/makesis.pl		Installation file creator
symbian/PerlAppAif.rss		Symbian app launcher code
symbian/PerlApp.cpp		Symbian app launcher code
symbian/PerlApp.h		Symbian app launcher header
symbian/PerlApp.hrh		Symbian app launcher resource header
symbian/PerlBase.cpp		Symbian Perl base class
symbian/PerlBase.h		Symbian Perl base class header
symbian/PerlBase.pod		Symbian Perl base class documentation
symbian/PerlRecog.cpp		Symbian recognizer code
symbian/PerlRecog.mmp		Symbian recognizer build
symbian/PerlUi.cpp		Symbian Perl UI class
symbian/PerlUi.h		Symbian Perl UI class header
symbian/PerlUi.hrh		Symbian Perl UI class resource header
symbian/PerlUiS60.rss		Symbian app launcher resource definition
symbian/PerlUiS80.rss		Symbian app launcher resource definition
symbian/PerlUiS90.rss		Symbian app launcher resource definition
symbian/PerlUiUIQ.rss		Symbian app launcher resource definition
symbian/PerlUtil.cpp		Symbian Perl utility class
symbian/PerlUtil.h		Symbian Perl utility class header
symbian/PerlUtil.pod		Symbian Perl utility class documentation
symbian/port.pl			Helper code for config.pl
symbian/README			ReadMe for the Symbian files
symbian/sanity.pl		Helper code for config.pl
symbian/sdk.pl			Helper code for config.pl
symbian/sisify.pl		Packaging utility
symbian/symbian_dll.cpp		The DLL stub for Symbian
symbian/symbianish.h		Header for Symbian
symbian/symbian_proto.h		Prototypes for Symbian
symbian/symbian_stubs.c		Stub routines for Symbian
symbian/symbian_stubs.h		Stub headers for Symbian
symbian/symbian_utils.cpp	Helper routines for Symbian
symbian/TODO			Symbian things to do
symbian/uid.pl			Helper code for config.pl
symbian/version.pl		Helper code for config.pl
symbian/xsbuild.pl		Building extensions
taint.c				Tainting code
t/base/cond.t			See if conditionals work
t/base/if.t			See if if works
t/base/lex.t			See if lexical items work
t/base/num.t			See if numbers work
t/base/pat.t			See if pattern matching works
t/base/rs.t			See if record-read works
t/base/term.t			See if various terms work
t/base/translate.t		See if character set translation works
t/base/while.t			See if while work
t/benchmark/rt26188-speed-up-keys-on-empty-hash.t	Benchmark if keys on empty hashes is fast enough
t/bigmem/index.t		Check that index() handles large offsets
t/bigmem/pos.t			Check that pos() handles large offsets
t/bigmem/read.t			Check read() handles large offsets
t/bigmem/regexp.t		Test regular expressions with large strings
t/bigmem/subst.t		Test s/// with large strings
t/bigmem/vec.t			Check vec() handles large offsets
t/charset_tools.pl		To aid in portable testing across platforms with different character sets
t/cmd/elsif.t			See if else-if works
t/cmd/for.t			See if for loops work
t/cmd/mod.t			See if statement modifiers work
t/cmd/subval.t			See if subroutine values work
t/cmd/switch.t			See if switch optimizations work
t/comp/bproto.t			See if builtins conform to their prototypes
t/comp/cmdopt.t			See if command optimization works
t/comp/colon.t			See if colons are parsed correctly
t/comp/decl.t			See if declarations work
t/comp/final_line_num.t		See if line numbers are correct at EOF
t/comp/fold.t			See if constant folding works
t/comp/form_scope.t		See if format scoping works
t/comp/hints.aux		Auxiliary file for %^H test
t/comp/hints.t			See if %^H works
t/comp/line_debug_0.aux		Auxiliary file for @{"_<$file"} test
t/comp/line_debug.t		See if @{"_<$file"} works
t/comp/multiline.t		See if multiline strings work
t/comp/opsubs.t			See if q() etc. are not parsed as functions
t/comp/our.t			Tests for our declaration
t/comp/package_block.t		See if package block syntax works
t/comp/package.t		See if packages work
t/comp/parser.t			See if the parser works in edge cases
t/comp/proto.t			See if function prototypes work
t/comp/redef.t			See if we get correct warnings on redefined subs
t/comp/require.t		See if require works
t/comp/retainedlines.t		See if the debugger can retain eval's lines
t/comp/term.t			See if more terms work
t/comp/uproto.t			See if the _ prototype works
t/comp/use.t			See if pragmata work
t/comp/utf.t			See if UTFs work
TestInit.pm			Preamble library for tests
t/harness			Finer diagnostics from test suite
thread.h			Threading header
time64.c			64 bit clean time.h (code)
time64_config.h			64 bit clean time.h (configuration)
time64.h			64 bit clean time.h (header)
t/io/argv.t			See if ARGV stuff works
t/io/binmode.t			See if binmode() works
t/io/bom.t			See if scripts can start with a byte order mark
t/io/closepid.t			See if close works for subprocesses
t/io/crlf.t			See if :crlf works
t/io/crlf_through.t		See if pipe passes data intact with :crlf
t/io/data.t			See if DATA works
t/io/defout.t			See if PL_defoutgv works
t/io/dup.t			See if >& works right
t/io/eintr_print.t		Test that print is not returning EINTR
t/io/eintr.t			See if code called during EINTR is safe
t/io/errnosig.t			Test case for restoration $! when leaving signal handlers
t/io/errno.t			See if $! is correctly set
t/io/fflush.t			See if auto-flush on fork/exec/system/qx works
t/io/fs.t			See if directory manipulations work
t/io/inplace.t			See if inplace editing works
t/io/iofile.t			See if we can load IO::File on demand
t/io/iprefix.t			See if inplace editing works with prefixes
t/io/layers.t			See if PerlIO layers work
t/io/nargv.t			See if nested ARGV stuff works
t/io/openpid.t			See if open works for subprocesses
t/io/open.t			See if open works
t/io/perlio_fail.t		See if bad layers fail
t/io/perlio_leaks.t		See if PerlIO layers are leaking
t/io/perlio_open.t		See if certain special forms of open work
t/io/perlio.t			See if PerlIO works
t/io/pipe.t			See if secure pipes work
t/io/print.t			See if print commands work
t/io/pvbm.t			See if PVBMs break IO commands
t/io/read.t			See if read works
t/io/say.t			See if say works
t/io/semctl.t			See if SysV semaphore semctl works
t/io/sem.t			See if SysV semaphores work
t/io/shm.t			See if SysV shared memory works
t/io/socket.t			See if socket functions work
t/io/tell.t			See if file seeking works
t/io/through.t			See if pipe passes data intact
t/io/utf8.t			See if file seeking works
t/japh/abigail.t		Obscure tests
t/lib/charnames/alias		Tests of "use charnames" with aliases.
t/lib/Cname.pm			Test charnames in regexes (op/pat.t)
t/lib/common.pl			Helper for lib/{warnings,feature}.t
t/lib/commonsense.t		See if configuration meets basic needs
t/lib/Count.pm			Helper for t/op/method.t
t/lib/croak/mg			Test croak calls from mg.c
t/lib/croak/op			Test croak calls from op.c
t/lib/croak/pp			Test croak calls from pp.c
t/lib/croak/pp_ctl		Test croak calls from pp_ctl.c
t/lib/croak/pp_hot		Test croak calls from pp_hot.c
t/lib/croak/pp_sys		Test croak calls from pp_sys.c
t/lib/croak.t			Test calls to Perl_croak() in the C source.
t/lib/croak/toke		Test croak calls from toke.c
t/lib/cygwin.t			Builtin cygwin function tests
t/lib/dbmt_common.pl		Common functionality for ?DBM_File tests
t/lib/deprecate/Deprecated.pm	Deprecated module to test deprecate.pm
t/lib/deprecate/Optionally.pm	Optionally deprecated module to test deprecate.pm
t/lib/deprecate.t		Test deprecate.pm
t/lib/Devel/nodb.pm		Module for t/run/switchd.t
t/lib/Devel/switchd_empty.pm	Module for t/run/switchd.t
t/lib/Devel/switchd_goto.pm	Module for t/run/switchd.t
t/lib/Devel/switchd.pm		Module for t/run/switchd.t
t/lib/feature/bundle		Tests for feature bundles
t/lib/feature/implicit		Tests for implicit loading of feature.pm
t/lib/feature/nonesuch		Tests for enabling/disabling nonexistent feature
t/lib/feature/say		Tests for enabling/disabling say feature
t/lib/feature/switch		Tests for enabling/disabling switch feature
t/lib/h2ph.h			Test header file for h2ph
t/lib/h2ph.pht			Generated output from h2ph.h by h2ph, for comparison
t/lib/locale/latin1		Part of locale.t in Latin 1
t/lib/locale/utf8		Part of locale.t in UTF8
t/lib/mypragma.pm		An example user pragma
t/lib/mypragma.t		Test the example user pragma
t/lib/no_load.t			Test that some modules don't load others
t/lib/overload_fallback.t	Test that using overload 2x in a scope doesn't clobber fallback
t/lib/overload_nomethod.t	Test that nomethod works as expected
t/lib/proxy_constant_subs.t	Test that Proxy Constant Subs behave correctly
t/lib/Sans_mypragma.pm		Test module for t/lib/mypragma.t
t/lib/strict/refs		Tests of "use strict 'refs'" for strict.t
t/lib/strict/subs		Tests of "use strict 'subs'" for strict.t
t/lib/strict/vars		Tests of "use strict 'vars'" for strict.t
t/lib/subs/subs			Tests of "use subs"
t/lib/test_require.pm		A test file for t/op/inccode.t
t/lib/test_use_14937.pm		A test pragma for t/comp/use.t
t/lib/test_use.pm		A test pragma for t/comp/use.t
t/lib/universal.t		Tests for functions in universal.c
t/lib/warnings/1global		Tests of global warnings for warnings.t
t/lib/warnings/2use		Tests for "use warnings" for warnings.t
t/lib/warnings/3both		Tests for interaction of $^W and "use warnings"
t/lib/warnings/4lint		Tests for -W switch
t/lib/warnings/5nolint		Tests for -X switch
t/lib/warnings/6default		Tests default warnings
t/lib/warnings/7fatal		Tests fatal warnings
t/lib/warnings/8signal		Tests warnings + __WARN__ and __DIE__
t/lib/warnings/9enabled		Tests warnings
t/lib/warnings/9uninit		Tests "Use of uninitialized" warnings
t/lib/warnings/av		Tests for av.c for warnings.t
t/lib/warnings/doio		Tests for doio.c for warnings.t
t/lib/warnings/doop		Tests for doop.c for warnings.t
t/lib/warnings/gv		Tests for gv.c for warnings.t
t/lib/warnings/hv		Tests for hv.c for warnings.t
t/lib/warnings/malloc		Tests for malloc.c for warnings.t
t/lib/warnings/mg		Tests for mg.c for warnings.t
t/lib/warnings/op		Tests for op.c for warnings.t
t/lib/warnings/pad		Tests for pad.c for warnings.t
t/lib/warnings/perl		Tests for perl.c for warnings.t
t/lib/warnings/perlio		Tests for perlio.c for warnings.t
t/lib/warnings/pp		Tests for pp.c for warnings.t
t/lib/warnings/pp_ctl		Tests for pp_ctl.c for warnings.t
t/lib/warnings/pp_hot		Tests for pp_hot.c for warnings.t
t/lib/warnings/pp_pack		Tests for pp_pack.c for warnings.t
t/lib/warnings/pp_sys		Tests for pp_sys.c for warnings.t
t/lib/warnings/regcomp		Tests for regcomp.c for warnings.t
t/lib/warnings/regexec		Tests for regexec.c for warnings.t
t/lib/warnings/run		Tests for run.c for warnings.t
t/lib/warnings/sv		Tests for sv.c for warnings.t
t/lib/warnings/taint		Tests for taint.c for warnings.t
t/lib/warnings/toke		Tests for toke.c for warnings.t
t/lib/warnings/universal	Tests for universal.c for warnings.t
t/lib/warnings/utf8		Tests for utf8.c for warnings.t
t/lib/warnings/util		Tests for util.c for warnings.t
t/loc_tools.pl			Common functions for finding platform's locales
t/mro/basic_01_c3.t		mro tests
t/mro/basic_01_c3_utf8.t	utf8 mro tests
t/mro/basic_01_dfs.t		mro tests
t/mro/basic_01_dfs_utf8.t	utf8 mro tests
t/mro/basic_02_c3.t		mro tests
t/mro/basic_02_c3_utf8.t	utf8 mro tests
t/mro/basic_02_dfs.t		mro tests
t/mro/basic_02_dfs_utf8.t	utf8 mro tests
t/mro/basic_03_c3.t		mro tests
t/mro/basic_03_c3_utf8.t	utf8 mro tests
t/mro/basic_03_dfs.t		mro tests
t/mro/basic_03_dfs_utf8.t	utf8 mro tests
t/mro/basic_04_c3.t		mro tests
t/mro/basic_04_c3_utf8.t	utf8 mro tests
t/mro/basic_04_dfs.t		mro tests
t/mro/basic_04_dfs_utf8.t	utf8 mro tests
t/mro/basic_05_c3.t		mro tests
t/mro/basic_05_c3_utf8.t	utf8 mro tests
t/mro/basic_05_dfs.t		mro tests
t/mro/basic_05_dfs_utf8.t	utf8 mro tests
t/mro/basic.t			mro tests
t/mro/basic_utf8.t		utf8 mro tests
t/mro/c3_with_overload.t	mro tests
t/mro/c3_with_overload_utf8.t	utf8 mro tests
t/mro/complex_c3.t		mro tests
t/mro/complex_c3_utf8.t		utf8 mro tests
t/mro/complex_dfs.t		mro tests
t/mro/complex_dfs_utf8.t	utf8 mro tests
t/mro/dbic_c3.t			mro tests
t/mro/dbic_c3_utf8.t		utf8 mro tests
t/mro/dbic_dfs.t		mro tests
t/mro/dbic_dfs_utf8.t		utf8 mro tests
t/mro/inconsistent_c3.t		mro tests
t/mro/inconsistent_c3_utf8.t	utf8 mro tests
t/mro/isa_aliases.t		tests for shared @ISA arrays
t/mro/isa_aliases_utf8.t	utf8 mro tests
t/mro/isa_c3.t			test for optimisatised mro_get_linear_isa_c3
t/mro/isa_c3_utf8.t		utf8 mro tests
t/mro/isa_dfs.t			test for optimisatised mro_get_linear_isa_dfs
t/mro/isa_dfs_utf8.t		utf8 mro tests
t/mro/isarev.t			PL_isarev/mro::get_isarev tests
t/mro/isarev_utf8.t		utf8 mro tests
t/mro/method_caching.t		mro tests
t/mro/method_caching_utf8.t	utf8 mro tests
t/mro/next_edgecases.t		mro tests
t/mro/next_edgecases_utf8.t	utf8 mro tests
t/mro/next_goto.t		mro tests
t/mro/next_goto_utf8.t		utf8 mro tests
t/mro/next_inanon.t		mro tests
t/mro/next_inanon_utf8.t	utf8 mro tests
t/mro/next_ineval.t		mro tests
t/mro/next_ineval_utf8.t	utf8 mro tests
t/mro/next_method.t		mro tests
t/mro/next_method_utf8.t	utf8 mro tests
t/mro/next_NEXT.t		mro tests
t/mro/next_NEXT_utf8.t		utf8 mro tests
t/mro/next_skip.t		mro tests
t/mro/next_skip_utf8.t		utf8 mro tests
t/mro/overload_c3.t		mro tests
t/mro/overload_c3_utf8.t	utf8 mro tests
t/mro/overload_dfs.t		mro tests
t/mro/package_aliases.t		mro tests
t/mro/package_aliases_utf8.t	utf8 mro tests
t/mro/pkg_gen.t			mro tests
t/mro/pkg_gen_utf8.t		utf8 mro tests
t/mro/recursion_c3.t		mro tests
t/mro/recursion_c3_utf8.t	utf8 mro tests
t/mro/recursion_dfs.t		mro tests
t/mro/recursion_dfs_utf8.t	utf8 mro tests
t/mro/vulcan_c3.t		mro tests
t/mro/vulcan_c3_utf8.t		utf8 mro tests
t/mro/vulcan_dfs.t		mro tests
t/mro/vulcan_dfs_utf8.t		utf8 mro tests
toke.c				The tokener
t/op/64bitint.t			See if 64 bit integers work
t/op/aassign.t			test list assign
t/op/alarm.t			See if alarm works
t/op/anonconst.t		See if :const works
t/op/anonsub.t			See if anonymous subroutines work
t/op/append.t			See if . works
t/op/args.t			See if operations on @_ work
t/op/array_base.t		Tests for the remnant of $[
t/op/array.t			See if array operations work
t/op/assignwarn.t		See if OP= operators warn correctly for undef targets
t/op/attrhand.t			See if attribute handlers work
t/op/attrproto.t		See if the prototype attribute works
t/op/attrs.t			See if attributes on declarations work
t/op/auto.t			See if autoincrement et all work
t/op/avhv.t			See if pseudo-hashes work
t/opbasic/arith.t			See if arithmetic works
t/opbasic/cmp.t			See if the various string and numeric compare work
t/opbasic/concat.t			See if string concatenation works
t/opbasic/magic_phase.t		See if ${^GLOBAL_PHASE} works
t/opbasic/qq.t			See if qq works
t/op/bless.t			See if bless works
t/op/blocks.t			See if BEGIN and friends work
t/op/bop.t			See if bitops work
t/op/caller.pl			Tests shared between caller.t and XS op.t
t/op/caller.t			See if caller() works
t/op/chars.t			See if character escapes work
t/op/chdir.t			See if chdir works
t/op/chop.t			See if chop works
t/op/chr.t			See if chr works
t/op/closure.t			See if closures work
t/op/closure_test.pl		Extra file for closure.t
t/op/concat2.t			Tests too complex for concat.t
t/op/cond.t			See if conditional expressions work
t/op/const-optree.t		Tests for sub(){...} becoming constant
t/op/context.t			See if context propagation works
t/op/coreamp.t			Test &foo() calls for CORE subs
t/op/coresubs.t			Generic tests for CORE subs
t/op/cproto.t			Check builtin prototypes
t/op/crypt.t			See if crypt works
t/op/current_sub.t		__SUB__ tests
t/op/dbm.t			See if dbmopen/dbmclose work
t/op/defined.t			See if defined() edge cases work
t/op/defins.t			See if auto-insert of defined() works
t/op/delete.t			See if delete works
t/op/die_except.t		See if die/eval avoids $@ clobberage
t/op/die_exit.t			See if die and exit status interaction works
t/op/die_keeperr.t		See if G_KEEPERR works for destructors
t/op/die.t			See if die works
t/op/die_unwind.t		Check die/eval early-$@ backcompat hack
t/op/dor.t			See if defined-or (//) works
t/op/do.t			See if subroutines work
t/op/dump.t			See if dump works.
t/op/each_array.t		See if array iterators work
t/op/each.t			See if hash iterators work
t/op/evalbytes.t		See if evalbytes operator works
t/op/eval.t			See if eval operator works
t/op/exec.t			See if exec, system and qx work
t/op/exists_sub.t		See if exists(&sub) works
t/op/exp.t			See if math functions work
t/op/fh.t			See if filehandles work
t/op/filehandle.t		Tests for http://rt.perl.org/rt3/Ticket/Display.html?id=72586
t/op/filetest_stack_ok.t	See if file tests leave their argument on the stack
t/op/filetest.t			See if file tests work
t/op/filetest_t.t		See if -t file test works
t/op/flip.t			See if range operator works
t/op/fork.t			See if fork works
t/op/for.t			See if for loops work
t/op/fresh_perl_utf8.t		UTF8 tests for pads and gvs
t/op/getpid.t			See if $$ and getppid work with threads
t/op/getppid.t			See if getppid works
t/op/glob.t			See if <*> works
t/op/gmagic.t			See if GMAGIC works
t/op/goto.t			See if goto works
t/op/goto_xs.t			See if "goto &sub" works on XSUBs
t/op/grent.t			See if getgr*() functions work
t/op/grep.t			See if grep() and map() work
t/op/groups.t			See if $( works
t/op/gv.t			See if typeglobs work
t/op/hashassign.t		See if hash assignments work
t/op/hash-rt85026.t		See if hash iteration/deletion works
t/op/hash.t			See if the complexity attackers are repelled
t/op/hashwarn.t			See if warnings for bad hash assignments work
t/op/heredoc.t			See if heredoc edge and corner cases work
t/op/hexfp.t			See if hexadecimal float literals work
t/op/inccode.t			See if coderefs work in @INC
t/op/inccode-tie.t		See if tie to @INC works
t/op/incfilter.t		See if the source filters in coderef-in-@INC work
t/op/inc.t			See if inc/dec of integers near 32 bit limit work
t/op/index.t			See if index works
t/op/index_thr.t		See if index works in another thread
t/op/infnan.t			See if inf/nan work
t/op/int.t			See if int works
t/op/join.t			See if join works
t/op/kill0_child		Process tree script that is kill()ed
t/op/kill0.t			See if kill works
t/op/kvaslice.t			See if index/value array slices work
t/op/kvhslice.t			See if key/value hash slices work
t/op/lc.t			See if lc, uc, lcfirst, ucfirst, quotemeta work
t/op/leaky-magic.t		See whether vars' magic leaks into packages
t/op/length.t			See if length works
t/op/lex_assign.t		See if ops involving lexicals or pad temps work
t/op/lexsub.t			See if lexical subroutines work
t/op/lex.t			Tests too complex for t/base/lex.t
t/op/lfs.t			See if large files work for perlio
t/op/list.t			See if lists and list slices work
t/op/localref.t			See if local ${deref} works
t/op/local.t			See if local works
t/op/lock.t			Tests for lock args & retval (no threads)
t/op/loopctl.t			See if next/last/redo work
t/op/lop.t			See if logical operators work
t/op/lvref.t			See if aliasing via references works
t/op/magic-27839.t		Test for #27839, skipped for minitest
t/op/magic.t			See if magic variables work
t/op/method.t			See if method calls work
t/op/mkdir.t			See if mkdir works
t/op/multideref.t		See if "$a[0]{foo}[$i]{$k}" etc works
t/op/mydef.t			See if "my $_" works
t/op/my_stash.t			See if my Package works
t/op/my.t			See if lexical scoping works
t/op/negate.t			See if unary minus works
t/op/not.t			See if not works
t/op/numconvert.t		See if accessing fields does not change numeric values
t/op/oct.t			See if oct and hex work
t/op/ord.t			See if ord works
t/op/or.t			See if || works in weird situations
t/op/overload_integer.t		See if overload::constant for integer works after "use".
t/op/override.t			See if operator overriding works
t/op/packagev.t			See if package VERSION work
t/op/pack.t			See if pack and unpack work
t/op/pos.t			See if pos works
t/op/postfixderef.t		See if ->$* ->@[ et al work
t/op/pow.t			See if ** works
t/op/print.t			See if print works
t/op/protowarn.t		See if the illegalproto warnings work
t/op/push.t			See if push and pop work
t/op/pwent.t			See if getpw*() functions work
t/op/qr.t			See if qr works
t/op/quotemeta.t		See if quotemeta works
t/op/rand.t			See if rand works
t/op/range.t			See if .. works
t/op/readdir.t			See if readdir() works
t/op/readline.t			See if <> / readline / rcatline work
t/op/read.t			See if read() works
t/op/recurse.t			See if deep recursion works
t/op/ref.t			See if refs and objects work
t/op/repeat.t			See if x operator works
t/op/require_37033.t		See if require always closes rsfp
t/op/require_errors.t		See if errors from require are reported correctly
t/op/require_override.t		See if require handles no argument properly
t/op/reset.t			See if reset operator works
t/op/reverse.t			See if reverse operator works
t/op/rt119311.t			Test bug #119311 (die/DESTROY/recursion)
t/op/runlevel.t			See if die() works from perl_call_*()
t/op/select.t			See if 0- and 1-argument select works
t/op/setpgrpstack.t		See if setpgrp works
t/op/sigdispatch.t		See if signals are always dispatched
t/op/signatures.t		See if sub signatures work
t/op/sigsystem.t		See if system and SIGCHLD handlers play together nicely
t/op/sleep.t			See if sleep works
t/op/smartkve.t			See if smart deref for keys/values/each works
t/op/smartmatch.t		See if the ~~ operator works
t/op/sort.t			See if sort works
t/op/splice.t			See if splice works
t/op/split.t			See if split works
t/op/split_unicode.t		Test split /\s/ and Unicode
t/op/sprintf2.t			See if sprintf works
t/op/sprintf.t			See if sprintf works
t/op/srand.t			See if srand works
t/op/sselect.t			See if 4 argument select works
t/op/stash.t			See if %:: stashes work
t/op/state.t			See if state variables work
t/op/stat.t			See if stat works
t/op/study.t			See if study works
t/op/studytied.t		See if study works with tied scalars
t/op/sub_lval.t			See if lvalue subroutines work
t/op/substr.t			See if substr works
t/op/substr_thr.t		See if substr works in another thread
t/op/sub.t			See if subroutines work
t/op/svleak.pl			Test file for svleak.t
t/op/svleak.t			See if stuff leaks SVs
t/op/switch.t			See if switches (given/when) work
t/op/symbolcache.t		See if undef/delete works on stashes with functions
t/op/sysio.t			See if sysread and syswrite work
t/op/taint.t			See if tainting works
t/op/threads_create.pl		Ancillary file for t/op/threads.t
t/op/threads-dirh.t		Test interaction of threads and dir handles
t/op/threads.t			Misc. tests for perl features with threads
t/op/tiearray.t			See if tie for arrays works
t/op/tie_fetch_count.t		See if FETCH is only called once on tied variables
t/op/tiehandle.t		See if tie for handles works
t/op/tie.t			See if tie/untie functions work
t/op/time_loop.t		Test that very large values don't hang gmtime and localtime.
t/op/time.t			See if time functions work
t/op/tr.t			See if tr works
t/op/undef.t			See if undef works
t/op/universal.t		See if UNIVERSAL class works
t/op/unlink.t			See if unlink works
t/op/unshift.t			See if unshift works
t/op/upgrade.t			See if upgrading and assigning scalars works
t/op/utf8cache.t		Tests malfunctions of utf8 cache
t/op/utf8decode.t		See if UTF-8 decoding works
t/op/utf8magic.t		See if utf8:: functions handle magic variables
t/op/utfhash.t			See if utf8 keys in hashes behave
t/op/utftaint.t			See if utf8 and taint work together
t/op/vec.t			See if vectors work
t/op/ver.t			See if v-strings and the %v format flag work
t/op/waitpid.t			See if waitpid works
t/op/wantarray.t		See if wantarray works
t/op/warn.t			See if warn works
t/op/while.t			See if while loops work
t/op/write.t			See if write works (formats work)
t/op/yadayada.t			See if ... works
t/perf/benchmarks		snippets of benchmarking/profiling code
t/perf/benchmarks.t		test t/perf/benchmarks syntax
t/perf/opcount.t		See if optimised subs have the right op counts
t/perf/optree.t			Test presence of some op optimisations
t/perf/speed.t			See if optimisations are keeping things fast
t/perf/taint.t			See if optimisations are keeping things fast (taint issues)
t/perl.supp			Perl valgrind suppressions
t/porting/args_assert.t		Check that all PERL_ARGS_ASSERT* macros are used
t/porting/authors.t		Check that all authors have been acknowledged
t/porting/bench.t		Check that Porting/bench.pl is okay
t/porting/bincompat.t		Check that {non_,}bincompat_options are ordered
t/porting/checkcase.t		Check whether we are case-insensitive-fs-friendly
t/porting/checkcfgvar.t		Check that all config.sh-like files are good
t/porting/cmp_version.t		Test whether all changed module files have their VERSION bumped
t/porting/copyright.t		Check that copyright years match
t/porting/corelist.t		Check that Module-CoreList has perl versions for the current perl
t/porting/customized.dat		Data file for porting/customized.t
t/porting/customized.t		Check all CUSTOMIZED files are as they should be
t/porting/diag.t		Test completeness of perldiag.pod
t/porting/dual-life.t		Check that dual-life bins are in utils/
t/porting/exec-bit.t		Check that exec-bit bins are identified
t/porting/extrefs.t		Check perl headers don't make extern refs
t/porting/filenames.t		Check the MANIFEST for filename portability.
t/porting/FindExt.t		Test win32/FindExt.pm
t/porting/globvar.t		Check that globvar.sym is sane
t/porting/known_pod_issues.dat	Data file for porting/podcheck.t
t/porting/libperl.t		Check libperl.a sanity
t/porting/maintainers.t		Test that Porting/Maintainers.pl is up to date
t/porting/manifest.t		Test that this MANIFEST file is well formed
t/porting/pending-author.t	Check if any pending commit would break tests
t/porting/perlfunc.t		Test that Functions_pm.PL can parse perlfunc.pod
t/porting/podcheck.t		Test the POD of shipped modules is well formed
t/porting/pod_rules.t		Check that various pod lists are consistent
t/porting/readme.t		Check that all files in Porting/ are mentioned in Porting/README.pod
t/porting/re_context.t		Check assumptions made by save_re_context()
t/porting/regen.t		Check that regen.pl doesn't need running
t/porting/ss_dup.t		Check that sv.c:ss_dup handle everything
t/porting/test_bootstrap.t	Test that the instructions for test bootstrapping aren't accidentally overlooked.
t/porting/utils.t		Check that utility scripts still compile
t/README			Instructions for regression tests
t/re/charset.t			See if regex modifiers like /d, /u work properly
t/re/fold_grind.t		See if case folding works properly
t/re/no_utf8_pm.t		Verify utf8.pm doesn't get loaded unless required
t/re/overload.t		Test against string corruption in pattern matches on overloaded objects
t/re/pat_advanced.t		See if advanced esoteric patterns work
t/re/pat_advanced_thr.t		See if advanced esoteric patterns work in another thread
t/re/pat_psycho.t		See if insane esoteric and slow patterns work
t/re/pat_psycho_thr.t		See if insane esoteric and slow patterns work in another thread
t/re/pat_re_eval.t		See if esoteric patterns using re 'eval' work
t/re/pat_re_eval_thr.t		See if esoteric patterns using re 'eval' work in another thread
t/re/pat_rt_report.t		See if esoteric patterns from rt reports work
t/re/pat_rt_report_thr.t	See if esoteric patterns from rt reports work in another thread
t/re/pat_special_cc.t		See if special charclasses (\s \w \d) work the same as (\s and [\s])
t/re/pat_special_cc_thr.t	See if special charclasses (\s \w \d) work the same as (\s and [\s]) under threads
t/re/pat.t			See if esoteric patterns work
t/re/pat_thr.t			See if esoteric patterns work in another thread
t/re/pos.t			Ensure pos() gets set properly after pre-match failures in pp_match
t/re/qr-72922.t			Test for bug #72922
t/re/qr_gc.t			See if qr doesn't leak
t/re/qrstack.t			See if qr expands the stack properly
t/re/qr.t			See if qr works
t/re/recompile.t		See if pattern caching/recompilation works
t/re/reg_60508.t		See if bug #60508 is fixed
t/re/reg_email.t		See if regex recursion works by parsing email addresses
t/re/reg_email_thr.t		See if regex recursion works by parsing email addresses in another thread
t/re/reg_eval_scope.t		Test scoping issues with (?{ }) and (??{ })
t/re/reg_eval.t			Test again regexp state corruption in (?{ }) and (??{ })
t/re/regexp_noamp.t		See if regular expressions work with optimizations
t/re/regexp_notrie.t		See if regular expressions work without trie optimisation
t/re/regexp_qr_embed.t		See if regular expressions work with embedded qr//
t/re/regexp_qr_embed_thr.t	See if regular expressions work with embedded qr// in another thread
t/re/regexp_qr.t		See if regular expressions work as qr//
t/re/regexp.t			See if regular expressions work
t/re/regexp_trielist.t		See if regular expressions work with trie optimisation
t/re/regexp_unicode_prop.t	See if unicode properties work in regular expressions as expected
t/re/regexp_unicode_prop_thr.t	See if unicode properties work in regular expressions as expected under threads
t/re/regex_sets_compat.t	Test (?[ ]) is compatible with old [ ]
t/re/regex_sets.t		Test (?[ ])
t/re/reg_fold.t			See if case folding works properly
t/re/reg_mesg.t			See if one can get regular expression errors
t/re/reg_namedcapture.t		Make sure glob assignment doesn't break named capture
t/re/reg_nc_tie.t		Test the tied methods of Tie::Hash::NamedCapture
t/re/reg_nocapture.t		Test the /n flag for regexps
t/re/reg_pmod.t			See if regexp /p modifier works as expected
t/re/reg_posixcc.t		See if posix character classes behave consistently
t/re/re_tests			Regular expressions for regexp.t
t/re/rt122747.t			Test rt122747 assert faile (requires DEBUGGING)
t/re/rxcode.t			See if /(?{ code })/ works
t/re/speed.t			See if optimisations are keeping things fast
t/re/speed_thr.t		ditto under threads
t/re/subst_amp.t		See if $&-related substitution works
t/re/subst.t			See if substitution works
t/re/substT.t			See if substitution works with -T
t/re/subst_wamp.t		See if substitution works with $& present
t/re/uniprops.t			Test unicode \p{} regex constructs
t/run/cloexec.t			Test close-on-exec.
t/run/dtrace.pl			For dtrace.t
t/run/dtrace.t			Test for DTrace probes
t/run/exit.t			Test perl's exit status.
t/run/flib/broken.pm		Bad .pm file for switchM.t
t/run/flib/t2.pm		Test for .pmcs with -I/dir/
t/run/flib/t2.pmc		Test for .pmcs with -I/dir/
t/run/fresh_perl.t		Tests that require a fresh perl.
t/run/locale.t		Tests related to locale handling
t/run/noswitch.t		Test aliasing ARGV for other switch tests
t/run/runenv.t			Test if perl honors its environment variables.
t/run/script.t			See if script invocation works
t/run/switch0.t			Test the -0 switch
t/run/switcha.t			Test the -a switch
t/run/switchC.t			Test the -C switch
t/run/switchd-78586.t		See whether bug 78586 is fixed
t/run/switchd.t			Test the -d switch
t/run/switchDx.t		Test the -D switch
t/run/switches.t		Tests for the other switches (-0, -l, -c, -s, -M, -m, -V, -v, -h, -z, -i)
t/run/switchF1.t		Pathological tests for the -F switch
t/run/switchF2.t		Pathological tests for the -F switch
t/run/switchF.t			Test the -F switch
t/run/switchI.t			Test the -I switch
t/run/switchM.t			Test the -M switch
t/run/switchn.t			Test the -n switch
t/run/switchp.t			Test the -p switch
t/run/switcht.t			Test the -t switch
t/run/switchx2.aux		Data for switchx.t
t/run/switchx3.aux		Data for switchx.t
t/run/switchx.aux		Data for switchx.t
t/run/switchx.t			Test the -x switch
t/TEST				The regression tester
t/test.pl			Simple testing library
t/test_pl/can_isa_ok.t		Tests for the simple testing library
t/test_pl/_num_to_alpha.t	Tests for the simple testing library 
t/test_pl/plan_skip_all.t	Tests for the simple testing library
t/test_pl/tempfile.t		Tests for the simple testing library
t/thread_it.pl			Run regression tests in a new thread
t/uni/attrs.t			See if Unicode attributes work
t/uni/bless.t			See if Unicode bless works
t/uni/cache.t			See if Unicode swash caching works
t/uni/caller.t			See if Unicode doesn't get mangled in caller()
t/uni/case.pl			See if Unicode casing works
t/uni/chomp.t			See if Unicode chomp works
t/uni/chr.t			See if Unicode chr works
t/uni/class.t			See if Unicode classes work (\p)
t/uni/eval.t			See if Unicode hints don't affect eval()
t/uni/fold.t			See if Unicode folding works
t/uni/goto.t			See if Unicode goto &sub works
t/uni/greek.t			See if Unicode in greek works
t/uni/gv.t			See if Unicode GVs work.
t/uni/heavy.t			See if utf8_heavy.pl uses perl that depends on it
t/uni/labels.t			See if Unicode labels work
t/uni/latin2.t			See if Unicode in latin2 works
t/uni/lex_utf8.t		See if Unicode in lexer works
t/uni/lower.t			See if Unicode casing works
t/uni/method.t			See if Unicode methods work
t/uni/opcroak.t			See if Unicode croaks from op.c work
t/uni/overload.t		See if Unicode overloading works
t/uni/package.t			See if Unicode in package declarations works
t/uni/parser.t			See if Unicode in the parser works in edge cases.
t/uni/readline.t		See if Unicode filehandles in <FH> work
t/uni/select.t			See if Unicode filehandles aren't mangled by select()
t/uni/sprintf.t			See if Unicode sprintf works
t/uni/stash.t			See if Unicode stashes work
t/uni/tie.t			See if Unicode tie works
t/uni/title.t			See if Unicode casing works
t/uni/tr_7jis.t			See if Unicode tr/// in 7jis works
t/uni/tr_eucjp.t		See if Unicode tr/// in eucjp works
t/uni/tr_sjis.t			See if Unicode tr/// in sjis works
t/uni/tr_utf8.t			See if Unicode tr/// in utf8 works
t/uni/universal.t		See if Unicode in calls to UNIVERSAL works
t/uni/upper.t			See if Unicode casing works
t/uni/variables.t		See that the rules for variable names work
t/uni/write.t			See if Unicode formats work
t/win32/crypt.t			Test Win32 crypt for compatibility
t/win32/fs.t			Test Win32 link for compatibility
t/win32/popen.t			Test for stdout races in backticks, etc
t/win32/runenv.t		Test if Win* perl honors its env variables
t/win32/signal.t		Test Win32 signal emulation
t/win32/system.t		See if system works in Win*
t/win32/system_tests		Test runner for system.t
uconfig64.sh			Configuration script for microperl for LP64
uconfig.h			Configuration header for microperl
uconfig.sh			Configuration script for microperl
unicode_constants.h		compile-time macros for Unicode code points
universal.c			The default UNIVERSAL package methods
unixish.h			Defines that are assumed on Unix
utf8.c				Unicode routines
utf8.h				Unicode header
utfebcdic.h			Unicode on EBCDIC (UTF-EBCDIC, tr16) header
util.c				Utility routines
util.h				Dummy header
utils/c2ph.PL			program to translate dbx stabs to perl
utils/corelist.PL		Module::CoreList
utils/cpan.PL			easily interact with CPAN from the command line
utils/enc2xs.PL			Encode module generator
utils/encguess.PL			guess character encodings of files
utils/h2ph.PL			A thing to turn C .h files into perl .ph files
utils/h2xs.PL			Program to make .xs files from C header files
utils/instmodsh.PL		Give information about installed extensions
utils/json_pp.PL		JSON::PP command line utility
utils/libnetcfg.PL		libnet
utils.lst			Lists utilities bundled with Perl
utils/Makefile.PL		Extract the utility scripts
utils/perlbug.PL		A simple tool to submit a bug report
utils/perldoc.PL		A simple tool to find & display perl's documentation
utils/perlivp.PL		installation verification procedure
utils/piconv.PL			iconv(1), reinvented in perl
utils/pl2pm.PL			A pl to pm translator
utils/pod2html.PL		Translator to turn pod into HTML
utils/prove.PL			The prove harness utility
utils/ptardiff.PL		The ptardiff utility
utils/ptargrep.PL		The ptargrep utility
utils/ptar.PL			The ptar utility
utils/shasum.PL			filter for computing SHA digests (analogous to md5sum)
utils/splain.PL			Stand-alone version of diagnostics.pm
utils/xsubpp.PL			External subroutine preprocessor
utils/zipdetails.PL			display the internal structure of zip files
vms/descrip_mms.template	Template MM[SK] description file for build
vms/genopt.com			hack to write options files in case of broken makes
vms/gen_shrfls.pl		generate options files and glue for shareable image
vms/make_command.com		record MM[SK] command used to build Perl
vms/mms2make.pl			convert descrip.mms to make syntax
vms/munchconfig.c		performs shell $var substitution for VMS
vms/myconfig.com		record local configuration info for bug report
vms/test.com			DCL driver for regression tests
vms/vms.c			VMS-specific C code for Perl core
vms/vmsish.h			VMS-specific C header for Perl core
vms/vmspipe.com			VMS-specific piped command helper script
vos/Changes			Changes made to port Perl to the VOS operating system
vos/compile_full_perl.cm	VOS command macro to build "full" Perl
vos/configure_full_perl.sh	VOS shell script to configure "full" perl before building
vos/make_full_perl.sh		VOS shell script to build and test "full" perl
vos/vos.c			VOS emulations for missing POSIX functions
vos/vosish.h			VOS-specific header file
vutil.c				Version object C functions
vutil.h				Version object headers
vxs.inc				Version object XS methods
warnings.h			The warning numbers
win32/bin/exetype.pl		Set executable type to CONSOLE or WINDOWS
win32/bin/perlglob.pl		Win32 globbing
win32/bin/pl2bat.pl		wrap perl scripts into batch files
win32/bin/runperl.pl		run perl script via batch file namesake
win32/bin/search.pl		Win32 port
win32/ce-helpers/cecopy-lib.pl	WinCE port
win32/ce-helpers/compile-all.bat	WinCE port
win32/ce-helpers/compile.bat	WinCE port
win32/ce-helpers/comp.pl	WinCE port
win32/ce-helpers/makedist.pl	WinCE port
win32/ce-helpers/registry.bat	WinCE port
win32/ce-helpers/sdsdkenv.bat	WinCE port
win32/config.ce			WinCE port
win32/config.gc			Win32 base line config.sh (MinGW build)
win32/config_H.ce		WinCE port
win32/config_H.gc		Win32 config header (MinGW build)
win32/config_h.PL		Perl code to convert Win32 config.sh to config.h
win32/config_H.vc		Win32 config header (Visual C++ build)
win32/config_sh.PL		Perl code to update Win32 config.sh from Makefile
win32/config.vc			Win32 base line config.sh (Visual C++ build)
win32/create_perllibst_h.pl	creates perllibst.h file for inclusion from perllib.c
win32/distclean.bat		Remove _ALL_ files not listed here in MANIFEST
win32/fcrypt.c			crypt() implementation
win32/FindExt.pm		Scan for extensions
win32/GNUmakefile		Win32 makefile for GNU make
win32/include/arpa/inet.h	Win32 port
win32/include/dirent.h		Win32 port
win32/include/netdb.h		Win32 port
win32/include/sys/errno2.h	Win32 port
win32/include/sys/socket.h	Win32 port
win32/list_static_libs.pl	prints libraries for static linking
win32/Makefile			Win32 makefile for NMAKE (Visual C++ build)
win32/Makefile.ce		WinCE port
win32/makefile.mk		Win32 makefile for DMAKE (BC++, VC++ builds)
win32/perlexe.ico		perlexe.ico image file
win32/perlexe.manifest		Assembly manifest file
win32/perlexe.rc		associated perl binary with icon
win32/perlglob.c		Win32 port
win32/perlhost.h		Perl "host" implementation
win32/perllib.c			Win32 port
win32/perlmaince.c		WinCE port
win32/perl.rc			WinCE port
win32/pod.mak			Win32 port
win32/runperl.c			Win32 port
win32/vdir.h			Perl "host" virtual directory manager for CE
win32/vmem.h			Perl "host" memory manager for CE
win32/win32.c			Win32 port
win32/win32ceio.c		Win32/WinCE PerlIO layer support
win32/win32.h			Win32 port
win32/win32io.c			Win32 PerlIO layer support
win32/win32iop.h		Win32 port
win32/win32iop-o.h		WinCE port
win32/win32sck.c		Win32 port
win32/win32thread.c		Win32 functions for threads
win32/win32thread.h		Win32 port mapping to threads
win32/wince.c			WinCE port
win32/wince.h			WinCE port
win32/wincesck.c		WinCE port
write_buildcustomize.pl		Generate lib/buildcustomize.pl
XSUB.h				Include file for extension subroutines
