'\"
'\" Copyright (c) 1990 The Regents of the University of California.
'\" Copyright (c) 1994-1996 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
'\"
'\" See the file "license.terms" for information on usage and redistribution
'\" of this file, and for a DISCLAIMER OF ALL WARRANTIES.
'\" 
'\" SCCS: @(#) GetAnchor.3 1.9 96/03/26 18:08:45
'\" 
.so man.macros
.TH Tk_GetAnchor 3 "" Tk "Tk Library Procedures"
.BS
.SH NAME
Tk_GetAnchor, Tk_NameOfAnchor \- translate between strings and anchor positions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fB#include <tk.h>\fR
.sp
int
\fBTk_GetAnchor(\fIinterp, string, anchorPtr\fB)\fR
.sp
char *
\fBTk_NameOfAnchor(\fIanchor\fB)\fR
.SH ARGUMENTS
.AS "Tk_Anchor" *anchorPtr
.AP Tcl_Interp *interp in
Interpreter to use for error reporting.
.AP char *string in
String containing name of anchor point: one of ``n'', ``ne'', ``e'', ``se'',
``s'', ``sw'', ``w'', ``nw'', or ``center''.
.AP int *anchorPtr out
Pointer to location in which to store anchor position corresponding to
\fIstring\fR.
.AP Tk_Anchor anchor in
Anchor position, e.g. \fBTCL_ANCHOR_CENTER\fR.
.BE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBTk_GetAnchor\fR places in \fI*anchorPtr\fR an anchor position
(enumerated type \fBTk_Anchor\fR)
corresponding to \fIstring\fR,  which will be one of
\fBTK_ANCHOR_N\fR, \fBTK_ANCHOR_NE\fR, \fBTK_ANCHOR_E\fR, \fBTK_ANCHOR_SE\fR,
\fBTK_ANCHOR_S\fR, \fBTK_ANCHOR_SW\fR, \fBTK_ANCHOR_W\fR, \fBTK_ANCHOR_NW\fR,
or \fBTK_ANCHOR_CENTER\fR.
Anchor positions are typically used for indicating a point on an object
that will be used to position that object, e.g. \fBTK_ANCHOR_N\fR means
position the top center point of the object at a particular place.
.PP
Under normal circumstances the return value is \fBTCL_OK\fR and
\fIinterp\fR is unused.
If \fIstring\fR doesn't contain a valid anchor position
or an abbreviation of one of these names, then an error message is
stored in \fIinterp->result\fR, \fBTCL_ERROR\fR is returned, and
\fI*anchorPtr\fR is unmodified.
.PP
\fBTk_NameOfAnchor\fR is the logical inverse of \fBTk_GetAnchor\fR.
Given an anchor position such as \fBTK_ANCHOR_N\fR it returns a
statically-allocated string corresponding to \fIanchor\fR.
If \fIanchor\fR isn't a legal anchor value, then
``unknown anchor position'' is returned.

.SH KEYWORDS
anchor position
