'\"
'\" Copyright (c) 1990 The Regents of the University of California.
'\" Copyright (c) 1994-1996 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
'\"
'\" See the file "license.terms" for information on usage and redistribution
'\" of this file, and for a DISCLAIMER OF ALL WARRANTIES.
'\" 
'\" SCCS: @(#) GetCapStyl.3 1.9 96/03/26 18:09:14
'\" 
.so man.macros
.TH Tk_GetCapStyle 3 "" Tk "Tk Library Procedures"
.BS
.SH NAME
Tk_GetCapStyle, Tk_NameOfCapStyle \- translate between strings and cap styles
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fB#include <tk.h>\fR
.sp
int
\fBTk_GetCapStyle(\fIinterp, string, capPtr\fB)\fR
.sp
char *
\fBTk_NameOfCapStyle(\fIcap\fB)\fR
.SH ARGUMENTS
.AS "Tcl_Interp" *capPtr
.AP Tcl_Interp *interp in
Interpreter to use for error reporting.
.AP char *string in
String containing name of cap style: one of ```butt'', ``projecting'',
or ``round''.
.AP int *capPtr out
Pointer to location in which to store X cap style corresponding to
\fIstring\fR.
.AP int cap in
Cap style: one of \fBCapButt\fR, \fBCapProjecting\fR, or \fBCapRound\fR.
.BE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBTk_GetCapStyle\fR places in \fI*capPtr\fR the X cap style
corresponding to \fIstring\fR.
This will be one of the values
\fBCapButt\fR, \fBCapProjecting\fR, or \fBCapRound\fR.
Cap styles are typically used in X graphics contexts to indicate
how the end-points of lines should be capped.
See the X documentation for information on what each style
implies.
.PP
Under normal circumstances the return value is \fBTCL_OK\fR and
\fIinterp\fR is unused.
If \fIstring\fR doesn't contain a valid cap style
or an abbreviation of one of these names, then an error message is
stored in \fIinterp->result\fR, \fBTCL_ERROR\fR is returned, and
\fI*capPtr\fR is unmodified.
.PP
\fBTk_NameOfCapStyle\fR is the logical inverse of \fBTk_GetCapStyle\fR.
Given a cap style such as \fBCapButt\fR it returns a
statically-allocated string corresponding to \fIcap\fR.
If \fIcap\fR isn't a legal cap style, then
``unknown cap style'' is returned.

.SH KEYWORDS
butt, cap style, projecting, round
