'\"
'\" Copyright (c) 1990 The Regents of the University of California.
'\" Copyright (c) 1994-1996 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
'\"
'\" See the file "license.terms" for information on usage and redistribution
'\" of this file, and for a DISCLAIMER OF ALL WARRANTIES.
'\" 
'\" SCCS: @(#) GetJoinStl.3 1.8 96/03/26 18:10:46
'\" 
.so man.macros
.TH Tk_GetJoinStyle 3 "" Tk "Tk Library Procedures"
.BS
.SH NAME
Tk_GetJoinStyle, Tk_NameOfJoinStyle \- translate between strings and join styles
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fB#include <tk.h>\fR
.sp
int
\fBTk_GetJoinStyle(\fIinterp, string, joinPtr\fB)\fR
.sp
char *
\fBTk_NameOfJoinStyle(\fIjoin\fB)\fR
.SH ARGUMENTS
.AS "Tcl_Interp" *joinPtr
.AP Tcl_Interp *interp in
Interpreter to use for error reporting.
.AP char *string in
String containing name of join style: one of ``bevel'', ``miter'',
or ``round''.
.AP int *joinPtr out
Pointer to location in which to store X join style corresponding to
\fIstring\fR.
.AP int join in
Join style: one of \fBJoinBevel\fR, \fBJoinMiter\fR, \fBJoinRound\fR.
.BE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBTk_GetJoinStyle\fR places in \fI*joinPtr\fR the X join style
corresponding to \fIstring\fR, which will be one of
\fBJoinBevel\fR, \fBJoinMiter\fR, or \fBJoinRound\fR.
Join styles are typically used in X graphics contexts to indicate
how adjacent line segments should be joined together.
See the X documentation for information on what each style
implies.
.PP
Under normal circumstances the return value is \fBTCL_OK\fR and
\fIinterp\fR is unused.
If \fIstring\fR doesn't contain a valid join style
or an abbreviation of one of these names, then an error message is
stored in \fIinterp->result\fR, \fBTCL_ERROR\fR is returned, and
\fI*joinPtr\fR is unmodified.
.PP
\fBTk_NameOfJoinStyle\fR is the logical inverse of \fBTk_GetJoinStyle\fR.
Given a join style such as \fBJoinBevel\fR it returns a
statically-allocated string corresponding to \fIjoin\fR.
If \fIjoin\fR isn't a legal join style, then
``unknown join style'' is returned.

.SH KEYWORDS
bevel, join style, miter, round
