'\"
'\" Copyright (c) 1990-1994 The Regents of the University of California.
'\" Copyright (c) 1994-1996 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
'\"
'\" See the file "license.terms" for information on usage and redistribution
'\" of this file, and for a DISCLAIMER OF ALL WARRANTIES.
'\" 
'\" SCCS: @(#) GetJustify.3 1.10 96/03/26 18:10:59
'\" 
.so man.macros
.TH Tk_GetJustify 3 4.0 Tk "Tk Library Procedures"
.BS
.SH NAME
Tk_GetJustify, Tk_NameOfJustify \- translate between strings and justification styles
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fB#include <tk.h>\fR
.sp
Tk_Justify
\fBTk_GetJustify(\fIinterp, string, justifyPtr\fB)\fR
.sp
char *
\fBTk_NameOfJustify(\fIjustify\fB)\fR
.SH ARGUMENTS
.AS "Tk_Justify" *justifyPtr
.AP Tcl_Interp *interp in
Interpreter to use for error reporting.
.AP char *string in
.VS
String containing name of justification style (``left'', ``right'', or
``center'').
.VE
.AP int *justifyPtr out
Pointer to location in which to store justify value corresponding to
\fIstring\fR.
.AP Tk_Justify justify in
Justification style (one of the values listed below).
.BE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBTk_GetJustify\fR places in \fI*justifyPtr\fR the justify value
corresponding to \fIstring\fR.  This value will be one of the following:
.TP
\fBTK_JUSTIFY_LEFT\fR
Means that the text on each line should start at the left edge of
the line;  as a result, the right edges of lines may be ragged.
.TP
\fBTK_JUSTIFY_RIGHT\fR
Means that the text on each line should end at the right edge of
the line;  as a result, the left edges of lines may be ragged.
.TP
\fBTK_JUSTIFY_CENTER\fR
Means that the text on each line should be centered;  as a result,
both the left and right edges of lines may be ragged.
.PP
Under normal circumstances the return value is \fBTCL_OK\fR and
\fIinterp\fR is unused.
If \fIstring\fR doesn't contain a valid justification style
or an abbreviation of one of these names, then an error message is
stored in \fIinterp->result\fR, \fBTCL_ERROR\fR is returned, and
\fI*justifyPtr\fR is unmodified.
.PP
\fBTk_NameOfJustify\fR is the logical inverse of \fBTk_GetJustify\fR.
Given a justify value it returns a statically-allocated string
corresponding to \fIjustify\fR.
If \fIjustify\fR isn't a legal justify value, then
``unknown justification style'' is returned.

.SH KEYWORDS
center, fill, justification, string
