'\"
'\" Copyright (c) 1990 The Regents of the University of California.
'\" Copyright (c) 1994-1996 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
'\"
'\" See the file "license.terms" for information on usage and redistribution
'\" of this file, and for a DISCLAIMER OF ALL WARRANTIES.
'\" 
'\" SCCS: @(#) GetVRoot.3 1.9 96/03/26 18:13:09
'\" 
.so man.macros
.TH Tk_GetVRootGeometry 3 4.0 Tk "Tk Library Procedures"
.BS
.SH NAME
Tk_GetVRootGeometry \- Get location and size of virtual root for window
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fB#include <tk.h>\fR
.sp
\fBTk_GetVRootGeometry(\fItkwin, xPtr, yPtr, widthPtr, heightPtr\fB)\fR
.SH ARGUMENTS
.AS Tk_Window heightPtr
.AP Tk_Window tkwin in
Token for window whose virtual root is to be queried.
.AP int xPtr out
Points to word in which to store x-offset of virtual root.
.AP int yPtr out
Points to word in which to store y-offset of virtual root.
.AP "int" widthPtr out
.VS
Points to word in which to store width of virtual root.
.AP "int" heightPtr out
.VE
Points to word in which to store height of virtual root.
.BE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBTkGetVRootGeometry\fR returns geometry information about the virtual
root window associated with \fItkwin\fR.  The ``associated'' virtual
root is the one in which \fItkwin\fR's nearest top-level ancestor (or
\fItkwin\fR itself if it is a top-level window) has
been reparented by the window manager.  This window is identified by
a \fB__SWM_ROOT\fR or \fB__WM_ROOT\fR property placed on the top-level
window by the window manager.
If \fItkwin\fR is not associated with a virtual root (e.g.
because the window manager doesn't use virtual roots) then *\fIxPtr\fR and
*\fIyPtr\fR will be set to 0 and *\fIwidthPtr\fR and *\fIheightPtr\fR
will be set to the dimensions of the screen containing \fItkwin\fR.

.SH KEYWORDS
geometry, height, location, virtual root, width, window manager
