'\"
'\" Copyright (c) 1990-1993 The Regents of the University of California.
'\" Copyright (c) 1994-1996 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
'\"
'\" See the file "license.terms" for information on usage and redistribution
'\" of this file, and for a DISCLAIMER OF ALL WARRANTIES.
'\" 
'\" SCCS: @(#) WindowId.3 1.15 96/03/26 18:19:40
'\" 
.so man.macros
.TH Tk_WindowId 3 "" Tk "Tk Library Procedures"
.BS
.SH NAME
Tk_WindowId, Tk_Parent, Tk_Display, Tk_DisplayName, Tk_ScreenNumber, Tk_Screen, Tk_X, Tk_Y, Tk_Width, Tk_Height, Tk_Changes, Tk_Attributes, Tk_IsMapped, Tk_IsTopLevel, Tk_ReqWidth, Tk_ReqHeight, Tk_InternalBorderWidth, Tk_Visual, Tk_Depth, Tk_Colormap  \- retrieve information from Tk's local data structure
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fB#include <tk.h>\fR
.sp
Window
\fBTk_WindowId\fR(\fItkwin\fR)
.sp
Tk_Window
\fBTk_Parent\fR(\fItkwin\fR)
.sp
Display *
\fBTk_Display\fR(\fItkwin\fR)
.sp
char *
\fBTk_DisplayName\fR(\fItkwin\fR)
.sp
int
\fBTk_ScreenNumber\fR(\fItkwin\fR)
.sp
Screen *
\fBTk_Screen\fR(\fItkwin\fR)
.sp
int
\fBTk_X\fR(\fItkwin\fR)
.sp
int
\fBTk_Y\fR(\fItkwin\fR)
.sp
int
\fBTk_Width\fR(\fItkwin\fR)
.sp
int
\fBTk_Height\fR(\fItkwin\fR)
.sp
XWindowChanges *
\fBTk_Changes\fR(\fItkwin\fR)
.sp
XSetWindowAttributes *
\fBTk_Attributes\fR(\fItkwin\fR)
.sp
int
\fBTk_IsMapped\fR(\fItkwin\fR)
.sp
int
\fBTk_IsTopLevel\fR(\fItkwin\fR)
.sp
int
\fBTk_ReqWidth\fR(\fItkwin\fR)
.sp
int
\fBTk_ReqHeight\fR(\fItkwin\fR)
.sp
int
\fBTk_InternalBorderWidth\fR(\fItkwin\fR)
.sp
Visual *
\fBTk_Visual\fR(\fItkwin\fR)
.sp
int
\fBTk_Depth\fR(\fItkwin\fR)
.sp
Colormap
\fBTk_Colormap\fR(\fItkwin\fR)
.SH ARGUMENTS
.AS Tk_Window tkwin
.AP Tk_Window tkwin in
Token for window.
.BE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBTk_WindowID\fR and the other names listed above are
all macros that return fields from Tk's local data structure
for \fItkwin\fR.  None of these macros requires any
interaction with the server;  it is safe to assume that
all are fast.
.PP
\fBTk_WindowId\fR returns the X identifier for \fItkwin\fR,
or \fBNULL\fR if no X window has been created for \fItkwin\fR
yet (see the \fBTk_CreateMainWindow\fR manual entry for details).
.PP
\fBTk_Parent\fR returns Tk's token for the logical parent of
\fItkwin\fR.  The parent is the token that was specified when
\fItkwin\fR was created, or NULL for main windows.
.PP
\fBTk_Display\fR returns a pointer to the Xlib display structure
corresponding to \fItkwin\fR.  \fBTk_DisplayName\fR returns an
ASCII string identifying \fItkwin\fR's display.  \fBTk_ScreenNumber\fR
returns the index of \fItkwin\fR's screen among all the screens
of \fItkwin\fR's display.  \fBTk_Screen\fR returns a pointer to
the Xlib structure corresponding to \fItkwin\fR's screen.
.PP
\fBTk_X\fR, \fBTk_Y\fR, \fBTk_Width\fR, and \fBTk_Height\fR
return information about \fItkwin's\fR location within its
parent and its size.  The location information refers to the
upper-left pixel in the window, or its border if there is one.
The width and height information refers to the interior size
of the window, not including any border.  \fBTk_Changes\fR
returns a pointer to a structure containing all of the above
information plus a few other fields.  \fBTk_Attributes\fR
returns a pointer to an XSetWindowAttributes structure describing
all of the attributes of the \fItkwin\fR's window, such as background
pixmap, event mask, and so on (Tk keeps track of all this information
as it is changed by the application).  Note: it is essential that
applications use Tk procedures like \fBTk_ResizeWindow\fR instead
of X procedures like \fBXResizeWindow\fR, so that Tk can keep its
data structures up-to-date.
.PP
\fBTk_IsMapped\fR returns a non-zero value if \fItkwin\fR
is mapped and zero if \fItkwin\fR isn't mapped.
.PP
\fBTk_IsTopLevel\fR returns a non-zero value if \fItkwin\fR
is a top-level window (its X parent is the root window of the
screen) and zero if \fItkwin\fR isn't a top-level window.
.PP
\fBTk_ReqWidth\fR and \fBTk_ReqHeight\fR return information about
the window's requested size.  These values correspond to the last
call to \fBTk_GeometryRequest\fR for \fItkwin\fR.
.PP
\fBTk_InternalBorderWidth\fR returns the width of internal border
that has been requested for \fItkwin\fR, or 0 if no internal border
was requested.  The return value is simply the last value passed
to \fBTk_SetInternalBorder\fR for \fItkwin\fR.
.PP
\fBTk_Visual\fR, \fBTk_Depth\fR, and \fBTk_Colormap\fR return
information about the visual characteristics of a window.
\fBTk_Visual\fR returns the visual type for
the window, \fBTk_Depth\fR returns the number of bits per pixel,
and \fBTk_Colormap\fR returns the current
colormap for the window.  The visual characteristics are
normally set from the defaults for the window's screen, but
they may be overridden by calling \fBTk_SetWindowVisual\fR.

.SH KEYWORDS
attributes, colormap, depth, display, height, geometry manager,
identifier, mapped, requested size, screen, top-level,
visual, width, window, x, y
