.\" $OpenBSD: tga.4,v 1.3 2002/09/30 18:09:48 miod Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001 Nathan L. Binkert
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission to redistribute, use, copy, and modify this software
.\" without fee is hereby granted, provided that the following
.\" conditions are met:
.\"
.\" 1. This entire notice is included in all source code copies of any
.\"    software which is or includes a copy or modification of this
.\"    software.
.\" 2. The name of the author may not be used to endorse or promote
.\"    products derived from this software without specific prior
.\"    written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY
.\" DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE
.\" GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
.\" INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY,
.\" WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING
.\" NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
.\" SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd October 5, 2001
.Dt TGA 4
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm tga
.Nd TGA graphics driver
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Cd "tga* at pci? dev ? function ?"
.Cd "wsdisplay* at tga?"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
This driver handles TGA graphics hardware within the
.Xr wscons 4
console framework.
.Pp
On TGA adapters, the resolution is set on the card and is not changed
at runtime.
On some TGA models, there are four dip switches.
On other models, there is a rotary switch with positions 0-F.
There are also some that use jumpers.
.Ss TGA Switch Settings:
.Bl -column "Setting" "Pixel Freq" "Resolution" "Refresh Rate"
.It Li Switch Ta Pixel Ta Monitor Ta Refresh
.It Em "Setting	Freq (MHz)	Resolution	Rate (MHz)"
.It " "
.It Li 0 Ta 130 Ta 1280x1024 Ta 72
.It Li 1 Ta 119 Ta 1280x1024 Ta 66
.It Li 2 Ta 108 Ta 1280x1024 Ta 60
.It Li 3 Ta 104 Ta 1152x900 Ta 72
.It Li 4 Ta 93 Ta 1152x900 Ta 66
.It Li 5 Ta 75 Ta 1024x768 Ta 70
.It Li 6 Ta 74 Ta 1024x768 Ta 72
.It Li 7 Ta 69 Ta 1024x864 Ta 60
.It Li 8 Ta 65 Ta 1024x768 Ta 60
.It Li 9 Ta 50 Ta 800x600 Ta 72
.It Li A Ta 40 Ta 800x600 Ta 60
.It Li B Ta 32 Ta 640x480 Ta 72
.It Li C Ta 25 Ta 640x480 Ta 60
.El
.Pp
The settings for D, E, and F are for 1600x1200 on some cards, but
there are no guarantees.
.Pp
N.B.: The resolution selected is the resolution used in X windows.
.Pp
There are also a couple of extra jumpers on some card.
One of these jumpers often selects the card to be the primary display.
Exactly one of the cards in your machine should have that jumper on.
If you have extra cards, they should have the jumper off.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr intro 4 ,
.Xr pci 4 ,
.Xr wscons 4 ,
.Xr wsdisplay 4 ,
.Xr wsconscfg 8
.Sh BUGS
There are some problems with the background randomly switching between
black and blue.
