.\"	$OpenBSD: eb.4,v 1.3 1999/07/02 20:11:50 aaron Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1995 Mark Brinicombe
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"      This product includes software developed by Mark Brinicombe.
.\" 3. The name of the author may not be used to endorse or promote products
.\"    derived from this software without specific prior written permission
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	$Id: eb.4,v 1.3 1999/07/02 20:11:50 aaron Exp $
.\"
.Dd May 16, 1999
.Dt EB 4 arm32
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm eb
.Nd Ethernet driver for SEQ8005 based network slot ethernet interfaces.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Cd "eb0 at podulebus?"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
interface provides access to a 10 Mb/s Ethernet network via the
SEEQ 8005 Ethernet chip.  The ethernet cards supported
by the
.Nm
interface are:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width -offset indent -compact
.It Acorn AEH61 network slot card
.It Acorn AEH62 network slot card
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr ea 4 ,
.Xr intro 4 ,
.Xr ifconfig 8
