.\"	$OpenBSD: wd.4,v 1.3 1999/07/09 13:35:45 aaron Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1995 Mark Brinicombe
.\" Based on man4.i386/wd.4 by James A. Jegers
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. The name of the author may not be used to endorse or promote products
.\"    derived from this software without specific prior written permission
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd July 29th, 1995
.Dt WD 4 arm32
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm wd
.Nd WD100x compatible hard disk driver
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Cd "wdc0 at mainbus? base 0x002107c0"
.Cd "wd* at wdc? drive ?"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm wd
driver supports hard disk controllers which emulate the Western
Digital WD100x.  This includes standard MFM, RLL, ESDI and IDE
controllers.
.Pp
Support for extended EIDE controllers is
.Ud .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr intro 4
