.\"	$OpenBSD: boot_mvme68k.8,v 1.6 2010/01/03 16:43:46 schwarze Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, Miodrag Vallat.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistribution of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: January 3 2010 $
.Dt BOOT_MVME68K 8 mvme68k
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm boot_mvme68k
.Nd mvme68k system bootstrapping procedures
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Ss Cold starts
When powered on, the mvme68k
.Tn BUG
firmware will proceed to its initialization, and
will boot an operating system if autoboot is enabled.
By sending a
.Dq break
to the serial line during the initialization sequence,
it is possible to stop the boot process and interact with the
.Tn BUG .
.Ss Warm starts
After a panic, or if the system is rebooted via
.Xr reboot 8
or
.Xr shutdown 8 ,
the
.Tn BUG
firmware will only restart the operating system if autoboot is enabled
and
.Dq Auto Boot at power-up only
is disabled in the
.Tn BUG
environment.
.Ss Boot process options
The
.Tn BUG
firmware will let the user enter a boot device identification, kernel filename
and boot options.
If no filename is specified,
.Pa /bsd
will be used by default.
.Pp
The following boot options are recognized:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width "-XXX" -offset indent -compact
.It Fl a
Prompt for the root filesystem device after the devices have been configured.
.It Fl b
On the next system reboot, always halt the system, even if a reboot is
required.
.It Fl c
Enter the
.Dq User Kernel Configuration
mode upon startup
.Pq see Xr boot_config 8 .
.It Fl d
Enter the debugger,
.Xr ddb 4 ,
as soon as the kernel console has been initialized.
.It Fl s
Boot the system single-user.
The system will be booted multi-user unless this option is specified.
.El
.Ss Abnormal system termination
In case of system crashes, the kernel will usually enter the kernel
debugger,
.Xr ddb 4 ,
unless it is not present in the kernel, or it is disabled via the
.Em ddb.panic
sysctl.
Upon leaving ddb, or if ddb was not entered, the kernel will halt the system
if it was still in device configuration phase, or attempt a dump to the
configured dump device, if possible.
The crash dump will then be recovered by
.Xr savecore 8
during the next multi-user boot cycle.
It is also possible to force other behaviours from ddb.
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width /usr/mdec/installboot -compact
.It Pa /bsd
default system kernel
.It Pa /bsd.rd
standalone installation kernel, suitable for disaster recovery
.It Pa /usr/mdec/bootxx
primary bootstrap code for
.Dq ffs
file system on SCSI disks
.It Pa /usr/mdec/bootsd
secondary bootstrap code for SCSI disks (usually also installed as
.Pa /bootsd )
.It Pa /usr/mdec/bootst
SCSI tape bootstrap code
.It Pa /usr/mdec/netboot
network bootstrap code
.It Pa /usr/mdec/sboot
network bootstrap code in S-Records, for older
.Tn BUG
firmware lacking the
.Li NBO
command.
.It Pa /usr/mdec/rboot
network bootstrap code in S-Records, suitable for user eeprom burning.
.It Pa /usr/mdec/stboot
.Tn Motorola
VID block put as first file on bootable SCSI tapes
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr ddb 4 ,
.Xr boot_config 8 ,
.Xr halt 8 ,
.Xr init 8 ,
.Xr installboot 8 ,
.Xr reboot 8 ,
.Xr savecore 8 ,
.Xr shutdown 8
