.\"	$OpenBSD: intro.4,v 1.27 2015/09/20 15:24:39 miod Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2009 Miodrag Vallat.
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2003 The NetBSD Foundation, Inc.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE NETBSD FOUNDATION, INC. AND CONTRIBUTORS
.\" ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED
.\" TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
.\" PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE FOUNDATION OR CONTRIBUTORS
.\" BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
.\" INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
.\" CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
.\" POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: September 20 2015 $
.Dt INTRO 4 sgi
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm intro
.Nd introduction to special files and hardware support
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The manual pages in section 4 describe the special files,
related driver functions, and networking support
available in the system.
In this part of the manual,
the SYNOPSIS section of each configurable device gives a sample specification
for use in constructing a system description for the
.Xr config 8
program.
The DIAGNOSTICS section lists messages which may appear on the console
and/or in the system error log
.Pa /var/log/messages
due to errors in device operation; see
.Xr syslogd 8
for more information.
.Pp
This section contains both devices which may be configured into
the system and network related information.
The networking support is introduced in
.Xr netintro 4 .
.Sh DEVICE SUPPORT
This section describes the hardware supported on the sgi platform.
Software support for these devices comes in two forms.
A hardware device may be supported with a character or block
.Em device driver ,
or it may be used within the networking subsystem and have a
.Em network interface driver .
Block and character devices are accessed through files in the file
system of a special type; see
.Xr mknod 8 .
Network interfaces are indirectly accessed through the interprocess
communication facilities provided by the system; see
.Xr socket 2 .
.Pp
A hardware device is identified to the system at configuration time
and the appropriate device or network interface driver is then
compiled into the system.
When the resultant system is booted, the autoconfiguration facilities
in the system probe for the device and, if found, enable the software
support for it.
If a device does not respond at autoconfiguration time it is not
accessible at any time afterwards.
To enable a device which did not autoconfigure, the system must be rebooted.
.Pp
The autoconfiguration system is described in
.Xr autoconf 4 .
A list of the supported devices is given below.
.Sh HARDWARE
The following systems are supported:
.Bl -column "Hardware" "Family" "Kernel" "Model" -offset 3n
.It Sy Hardware Ta Sy Family Ta Sy Kernel Ta Sy Model
.It Li IP20 Ta IP20 Ta IP22 Ta "Indigo (R4k)"
.It Li IP22 Ta IP22 Ta IP22 Ta "Indigo2, Challenge M (R4k)"
.It Li IP24 Ta IP22 Ta IP22 Ta "Indy, Challenge S"
.It Li IP26 Ta IP22 Ta IP26 Ta "POWER Indigo2 (R8000)"
.It Li IP27 Ta IP27 Ta IP27 Ta "Origin 2x00, Onyx 2"
.It Li IP28 Ta IP22 Ta IP28 Ta "POWER Indigo2 (R10000)"
.It Li IP29 Ta IP27 Ta IP27 Ta "Origin 200"
.It Li IP30 Ta IP30 Ta IP30 Ta "Octane, Octane 2 (Speedracer)"
.It Li IP31 Ta IP27 Ta IP27 Ta "Origin 200/2x00, Onyx 2 (250+\ MHz)"
.It Li IP32 Ta IP32 Ta IP32 Ta "O2, O2+ (Moosehead)"
.It Li IP34 Ta IP35 Ta IP27 Ta "Fuel (Asterix)"
.It Li IP35 Ta IP35 Ta IP27 Ta "Origin 3x00, Onyx 3x000, Onyx 3"
.It Li IP39 Ta IP35 Ta IP27 Ta "Onyx 4"
.It Li IP45 Ta IP35 Ta IP27 Ta "Origin 300, Onyx 300"
.It Li IP53 Ta IP35 Ta IP27 Ta "Origin 350, Onyx 350, Tezro"
.\" IP59 are the 1GHz IP53 designs
.It Li IP59 Ta IP35 Ta IP27 Ta "Origin 350, Onyx 350, Tezro (1GHz)"
.El
.Sh LIST OF DEVICES
The devices listed below are supported in this incarnation of the
system.
.\" Devices are indicated by their functional interface.
Not all supported devices are listed.
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width 10n -offset 3n -compact
.It Xr gbe 4
SGI Graphics Back End (GBE) frame buffer
.It Xr ioc 4
IOC3 generic workstation I/O device
.It Xr iof 4
IOC4 generic workstation I/O device
.It Xr macebus 4
Multimedia, Audio and Communications Engine I/O ASIC
.It Xr mainbus 4
SGI main processor bus device
.It Xr mavb 4
Moosehead A/V Board audio device
.It Xr mec 4
MAC-110 10/100 Ethernet device
.It Xr power 4
power button
.El
.Pp
A further list of available devices is contained within the pages
describing the system buses and controllers.
For example, a PCI device would be listed in the
.Xr pci 4
man page.
The following buses and controllers list these devices:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width "cardbus(4)XX" -offset 3n -compact
.It Xr gio 4
Graphics I/O GIO bus
.It Xr pci 4
introduction to PCI bus support
.It Xr usb 4
introduction to Universal Serial Bus support
.It Xr xbow 4
Octane and Origin family XIO bus
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr autoconf 4 ,
.Xr config 8
.Sh HISTORY
This
.Tn sgi
.Nm
appeared in
.Ox 3.6 .
