.\"	$OpenBSD: ioc.4,v 1.2 2009/05/18 06:55:33 jmc Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2009 Miodrag Vallat.
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: May 18 2009 $
.Dt IOC 4 sgi
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm ioc
.Nd generic workstation I/O device
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Cd "ioc* at pci?"
.Cd "com0 at ioc? base 0x00020178"
.Cd "com1 at ioc? base 0x00020170"
.Cd "dsrtc0 at ioc?"
.Cd "onewire* at ioc?"
.\" .Cd "ef* at ioc? base 0x000000f0"
.\" .Cd "iockbc* at ioc?"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
driver provides support for the various SGI IOC3 flavours on Octane and Origin
family systems.
.Pp
Depending on their particular configuration, the IOC3 boards may provide:
.Bl -bullet -compact -offset indent
.It
Two
.Xr com 4
serial ports.
.It
A
.Xr dsrtc 4
time-of-day chip.
.It
A 10/100 Mbit/s Ethernet interface.
.It
A PS/2 keyboard and mouse interface.
.El
.Pp
In order to tell these configurations apart, all IOC3 boards, except those
on-board Origin family systems, contain a factory-setup
.Xr onewire 4
bus with
.Xr owserial 4
components identifying the IOC3 flavour, as well as
.Xr owmac 4
components storing the Ethernet address, for IOC3 devices with Ethernet
interfaces.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr com 4 ,
.Xr dsrtc 4 ,
.\" .Xr ef 4 ,
.Xr intro 4 ,
.\" .Xr iockbc 4 ,
.Xr onewire 4 ,
.Xr owmac 4 ,
.Xr owserial 4 ,
.Xr pci 4
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
driver first appeared in
.Ox 4.4 .
.\" .Sh AUTHORS
.\" The
.\" .Nm
.\" driver was written by
.\" .An Miod Vallat .
