.\" $OpenBSD: bsd.port.mk.5,v 1.283 2011/07/05 15:29:32 sthen Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2000-2008 Marc Espie
.\"
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE DEVELOPERS ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE DEVELOPERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: July 5 2011 $
.Dt BSD.PORT.MK 5
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm bsd.port.mk
.Nd ports tree master Makefile fragment
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Fd .include <bsd.port.mk>
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
holds all the standard routines used by the ports tree.
Some variables and targets are for its internal use only.
The rest is documented here.
.Pp
.Nm
also uses quite a few helper scripts.
Those live under
.Pa ${PORTSDIR}/infrastructure/bin ,
and they do have manpages under
.Pa ${PORTSDIR}/infrastructure/man ,
which is not currently part of the default manpath.
.Pp
Other BSD variants, as well as older versions of
.Nm bsd.port.mk ,
include other targets and variables.
Conversion methods are outlined here.
.Pp
Most variables and targets are documented, with very few exceptions.
.Pp
This documentation covers the current targets, variables and paths used by
.Nm bsd.port.mk ,
followed by sections on obsolete constructs that a porter may need
when converting from other ports systems.
There is a separate section covering the fake framework, a section
explaining flavors and multi-packages, and a section covering
the generation of package information.
.Pp
Binary package details are mostly covered in
.Xr pkg_create 1
for the packing-list details,
and in
.Xr pkg_add 1
for the installation semantics.
.Pp
Selected common user activity such as the building of every package in
the system is covered by
.Xr ports 7
instead.
.Xr packages 7
provides an overview of the result.
.Sh TARGETS
.Bl -tag -width do-configure
.It Ar {build,run,all,regress}-dir-depends
Print all dependencies for a port in order to build it, run it, build and
run it, or to run regression tests.
The output is formatted as package specification pairs, in a form suitable
for
.Xr tsort 1 .
.It Ar full-{build,run,all}-depends
Print all dependencies a package depends upon for building, running,
or both, as a list of package names.
.It Ar {build,lib,run}-depends-list
Print a list of first level package specifications a port depends as
build dependencies, library dependencies, or run dependencies.
.It Ar print-{build,run}-depends
User convenience target that displays the result of
.Ar full-{build,run}-depends
in a more readable way.
.It Ar {pre,do,post}-*
Most standard targets can be specialized according to a given port's needs.
If defined,
the
.Ar pre-*
hook will be invoked before running the normal action;
the
.Ar do-*
hook will be invoked instead of the normal action;
the
.Ar post-*
hook will be invoked after the normal action.
Specialization hooks exist for
.Ar build ,
.Ar configure ,
.Ar distpatch ,
.Ar extract ,
.Ar fake ,
.Ar fetch ,
.Ar install ,
.Ar package ,
.Ar patch ,
.Ar regress .
See individual targets for exceptions.
.It Ar addsum
Complete the ${CHECKSUM_FILE} record of checksums with files that have been
added since
.Ar makesum .
Complain if anything does not match.
.It Ar build , Ar all
Default target.
Build the port.
Essentially invoke
.Bd -literal
env -i ${MAKE_ENV} ${MAKE_PROGRAM} ${MAKE_FLAGS} \e
	-f ${MAKE_FILE} ${ALL_TARGET}
.Ed
.It Ar build-depends
Verify the ports mentioned in
.Ev BUILD_DEPENDS ,
by checking the corresponding packages are actually installed,
and install the missing ports by recursing through the ports tree.
Invoked right after creating the working directory.
.It Ar checkpatch
Debugging version of the
.Ar patch
target that simulates invoking
.Xr patch 1 .
.It Ar checksum
Check distribution archives and distribution patches control sum against
the results recorded in ${CHECKSUM_FILE},
using the cryptographic signature utilities listed in ${PREFERRED_CIPHERS}.
All the files needed to recreate a port should be in ${CHECKSUMFILES} and
checksummed.
Invoking
.Ar checksum
with REFETCH=true
will try to fetch a version with the correct checksum from the
.Ox
main archive site in the case of a checksum mismatch.
.Ev NO_CHECKSUM
can be used to avoid all checksumming steps.
.It Ar clean
Clean ports contents.
By default, it will clean the work directory.
It can be invoked as
make clean='[depends build bulk work fake flavors dist install sub package
packages plist readme]'.
.Bl -tag -width packages
.It Va work
Clean work directory.
.It Va bulk
Clean bulk cookie.
.It Va build
Clean the
.Va WRKBUILD
directory (only useful if
.Va SEPARATE_BUILD
is set).
.It Va depends
Recurse into dependencies.
.It Va dist
Clean distribution files.
.It Va fake
Clean fake installation directory.
.It Va flavors
Clean all work directories.
.It Va install
Uninstall package.
.It Va package
Remove all copies of package file.
.It Va plist
Remove registered packing lists of all subpackages.
.It Va readmes
Clean files generated through the
.Ar readme
targets (html files).
.It Va sub
With
.Va install
or
.Va package ,
clean subpackages as well.
.It Va packages
Shorthand for `sub package'.
.It Va all
Shorthand for `work flavors packages plist'.
.El
.It Ar clean-depends
Short hand for make clean=depends.
.It Ar configure
Configure the port.
Might be a void operation.
Unless overridden, configure creates the ${WRKBUILD}
directory (see SEPARATE_BUILD),
and runs whatever configuration methods are recorded in
.Ev CONFIGURE_STYLE .
.It Ar depends
Check all the port's dependencies, that is:
.Ar build-depends ,
.Ar lib-depends ,
.Ar run-depends ,
.Ar regress-depends .
.It Ar describe
Prints a one-line index entry of the port, suitable for
.Pa ${PORTSDIR}/INDEX .
.It Ar distclean
Short-hand for make clean=dist.
.It Ar distpatch
Apply distribution patches only.
See
.Ar patch
and
.Ev PATCH_CASES
for details.
.It Ar dump-vars
Dumps the values of all relevant variables in a port, prepended with the
port's FULLPKGPATH.
.It Ar extract
Extract the distribution files under
.Pa ${WRKDIR}
(but see
.Ev EXTRACT_ONLY ) .
Refer to
.Ev EXTRACT_CASES
for a complete description.
Do not use
.Ev pre-extract
and
.Ev do-extract
hooks.
.It Ar fake
Do a fake port installation, that is, simulate the port installation under
${WRKINST}.
There is no
.Ev do-fake
and
.Ev post-fake
hooks.
.Ar fake
actually uses
.Ev pre-fake ,
.Ev pre-install ,
.Ev do-install
and
.Ev post-install .
Override
.Ev pre-install ,
.Ev do-install ,
or
.Ev post-install
to change behavior.
Do not touch
.Ev pre-fake
unless you really know what you are doing.
Described in a separate section below.
.It Ar fetch
Fetch the distribution files and patchfiles, using ${FETCH_CMD}.
Each file of the
.Ev DISTFILES
and
.Ev PATCHFILES
lists is retrieved, if necessary, from the list of sites in
.Ev MASTER_SITES .
If a filename ends with a
.Sq :0
to
.Sq :9
extension, it will be retrieved from
.Ev MASTER_SITES0
to
.Ev MASTER_SITES9
instead.
The ports framework uses
.Pa ${DISTDIR}/${DIST_SUBDIR}
(aliased to
.Pa ${FULLDISTDIR} )
to cache the ports distribution files and patch files.
Note that this framework is also used by mirroring scripts,
which will also retrieve
.Ev SUPDISTFILES ,
to fill with supplementary distribution files which are not needed for
every configuration.
Use of
.Ar {pre,do,post}-fetch
hooks is strongly discouraged, and will probably be removed in the
near future, as this makes mirroring of distfiles very complicated.
See
.Ev CHECKSUMFILES ,
.Ev CDROM_SITE ,
.Ev DISTDIR ,
.Ev DISTFILES ,
.Ev DIST_SUBDIR ,
.Ev FETCH_CMD ,
.Ev FETCH_MANUALLY ,
.Ev FETCH_SYMLINK_DISTFILES ,
.Ev FULLDISTDIR ,
.Ev MAKESUMFILES ,
.Ev MASTER_SITES ,
.Ev MASTER_SITES0 , ... ,
.Ev MASTER_SITES9 ,
.Ev PATCHFILES ,
.Ev SUPDISTFILES ,
.Ev REFETCH .
.It Ar index
Top-level target, see
.Xr ports 7 .
.It Ar install
Install the package after building.
See the description of THE FAKE FRAMEWORK
for the non-intuitive details of the way
.Ar {pre,do,post}-install
hooks are actually used by the ports tree.
.It Ar install-all
Install all packages in a multi-packages port.
.It Ar lib-depends
Verify that the library dependencies a port needs are actually there,
by checking the library specifications.
.It Ar lib-depends-check
Verify that the
.Ev LIB_DEPENDS
and
.Ev WANTLIB
are accurate for the port.
See
.Ar port-lib-depends-check ,
which is quicker.
.It Ar license-check
Check that
.Ev PERMIT_PACKAGE_*
settings match:
if any dependency has a more restrictive setting, warn about it.
This warning is advisory, because the automated license checking cannot
figure out which ports were used only for building and did not taint
the current port.
.It Ar link-categories
Create symbolic links in other directories that correspond to the port's
.Ev CATEGORIES .
Note that this does not affect bulk package building, since those links
don't appear in the upper-level Makefiles.
See also
.Ar unlink-categories .
.It Ar lock
Manually obtain a lock on a given directory.
Output must be used to update environment variables.
The lock can be released with
.Ar unlock .
Seldom used, see
.Xr ports 7
for details.
.It Ar makesum
Create the ${CHECKSUM_FILE} list of recorded checksums by running the
cryptographic fingerprints sha256, sha1, md5 and rmd160 on ${MAKESUMFILES}.
.Ev NO_CHECKSUM
can be used to avoid all checksumming steps.
.It Ar manpages-check
Verify that
.Xr makewhatis 8
can do a correct job with the port's manpages.
.It Ar mirror-maker
Top-level target, see
.Xr mirroring-ports 7 .
.It Ar package
Build a port package (or packages in
.Ev MULTI_PACKAGES
cases) from the fake installation.
Involves creating packaging information from templates
(see
.Ev COMMENT ,
.Ev SUBST_VARS
among others) and invoking
.Xr pkg_create 1
for each package in the
.Ev MULTI_PACKAGES
list.
If the repository already contains up-to-date packages, they are not rebuilt.
If PLIST_DB is set, the resulting packaging information is compared
with existing stuff, and saved if new, with loud complaints if it changed
without a REVISION bump.
Arch-independent packages are created in ${PACKAGE_REPOSITORY}/no-arch,
and copied into ${PACKAGE_REPOSITORY}/${MACHINE_ARCH}/all as needed.
If ${PERMIT_PACKAGE_FTP} is set to
.Sq Yes ,
copies built packages into ${PACKAGE_REPOSITORY}/${MACHINE_ARCH}/ftp, using
hard links if possible.
If ${PERMIT_PACKAGE_CDROM} is set to
.Sq Yes ,
copies built packages into ${PACKAGE_REPOSITORY}/${MACHINE_ARCH}/cdrom}, using
hard links if possible.
.It Ar patch
Apply distribution and
.Ox
specific patches.
Because of historical accident,
.Ar patch
does not follow the exact same scheme other standard targets do.
Namely,
.Ar patch
invokes
.Ar pre-patch
(if defined),
.Ar do-patch ,
and
.Ar post-patch ,
but the default
.Ar do-patch
target invokes
.Ar distpatch
directly.
So, if the
.Ar do-patch
target is overridden, it should still begin by calling
make distpatch, before applying
.Ox
specific patches.
Accordingly, the exact sequence of hooks is:
.Ar pre-patch ,
.Ar do-distpatch ,
.Ar post-distpatch ,
.Ar do-patch ,
.Ar post-patch .
If
.Pa ${PATCHDIR}
exists, the files described under
.Ev PATCH_LIST
will be applied under
.Ev WRKDIST .
See also
.Ev REORDER_DEPENDENCIES
for possible
.Ar post-patch
clean-up.
.It Ar peek-ftp
Connect to the first site in
.Ev MASTER_SITES ,
in the right directory, and leaves user at ftp prompt.
.It Ar pkglocatedb
Top-level target, see
.Xr ports 7 .
.It Ar port-lib-depends-check
Verify that the
.Ev LIB_DEPENDS
and
.Ev WANTLIB
hold all shared libraries used for every package in the port.
See
.Xr library-specs 7 .
This makes use of
.Ar print-plist-with-depends
to avoid actually building the packages, it only needs the
completion of the
.Ar fake
stage, and thus is quicker than
.Ar lib-depends-check ,
unless you already have all binary packages.
.It Ar prepare
Prepare a port for building, by checking and installing all required
dependencies.
.It Ar print-package-signature
Print the package signature, as computed using information from the ports tree,
in the same format used for
.Xr pkg_info 1
.Fl S .
.It Ar print-plist
Generate and print a package packing-list from the static information
present in the port.
.It Ar print-plist-contents
Generate and print a package contents from the static information
present in the port.
In contrast with
.Ar print-plist ,
the package contents only consists of files, all tagged with category
markers such as @file.
See
.Xr pkg_create 1 .
.It Ar print-plist-libs
Generate and print the list of static and dynamic libraries present in the port.
See
.Xr pkg_create 1 .
.It Ar print-plist-with-depends
Like
.Ar print-plist ,
but slower.
It also handles
.Ev LIB_DEPENDS ,
.Ev RUN_DEPENDS ,
and
.Ev WANTLIB ,
so that the packing-list is complete.
.It Ar readmes
Create an html description of packages, including comments, description,
and dependencies.
.It Ar rebuild
Force rebuild of the port.
.It Ar regress
Run regression tests for the port.
Essentially depend on a correct build and invoke
.Bd -literal
env -i ${MAKE_ENV} ${MAKE_PROGRAM} ${ALL_REGRESS_FLAGS} \e
	-f ${MAKE_FILE} ${REGRESS_TARGET} ${REGRESS_LOG}
.Ed
.Pp
If a port needs some other ports installed to run regression tests,
use
.Ev REGRESS_DEPENDS .
If a port needs special configuration or build options to enable regression
testing, define a
.Sq regress
.Ev FLAVOR .
.It Ar regress-depends
Verify packages needed for regression tests, using the same scheme as
.Ar build-depends .
Only invoked when regression tests are run, or explicitly through
.Ar depends .
.It Ar reinstall
Force reinstallation of a port, by first cleaning the old installation.
Seldom needed, as
.Ar update
will often do the right thing.
.It Ar repackage
For rebuilding of the packages of a port, by first removing the old packages.
.It Ar run-depends
Verify the ports mentioned in
.Ev RUN_DEPENDS ,
by checking the corresponding packages are actually installed,
and install the missing ports by recursing through the ports tree.
Invoked right before installing the package.
.It Ar show
Invoked as make show=name, show the contents of ${name}.
Invoked as make show="name1 name2 ...",
show the contents of ${name1} ${name2} ...,
one variable value per line.
Mostly used from recursive makes, or to know the contents of another
port's variables without guessing wrongly.
.It Ar show-required-by
Prints the list of pkgpaths for all ports that will be affected by the
current port changing.
Works by walking the list of dependencies, in reverse.
.It Ar subupdate
Update an existing installation to a newer package, exactly
like
.Ar update ,
but affects only one single subpackage in multi-packages ports.
.It Ar unlink-categories
Remove symbolic links in other directories that correspond to the port's
.Ev CATEGORIES .
See also
.Ar link-categories .
.It Ar unlock
Manually release a lock on a given directory.
See
.Ar lock .
.It Ar update-patches
Create or update patches for a port, using
.Xr diff 1
between
.Pa file
and
.Pa file.orig ,
based on
.Pa file.orig
existence.
In order to generate a patch, the original file needs to be named
.Pa file.orig
and
.Pa file
edited.
After the target is invoked, the patches are placed under the
patches/ directory.
It moves existing patches from
.Pa patch-file
to
.Pa patch-file.orig
.It Ar update
Update an existing installation to a newer package:
scan the installation for a package with the same
.Ev FULLPKGPATH ,
and update it using
.Sq pkg_add -r
if a newer package is available.
In multi-packages ports, all relevant packages are updated.
See
.Ev UPDATE_COOKIES_DIR
and
.Ev FORCE_UPDATE
as well.
.It Ar update-or-install
Update an installed package or perform a fresh installation,
by using
.Sq pkg_add -r .
Handles one single package in multi-packages ports.
See
.Ev UPDATE_COOKIES_DIR
and
.Ev FORCE_UPDATE
as well.
.It Ar update-or-install-all
Update installed packages or perform a fresh installation,
by using
.Sq pkg_add -r .
Handles all packages in multi-packages ports.
See
.Ev UPDATE_COOKIES_DIR
and
.Ev FORCE_UPDATE
as well.
.It Ar update-plist
Update the packing lists for a port, using the fake installation and the
existing packing lists.
.Ar update-plist
should produce mostly correct
.Pa PLIST ,
.Pa PFRAG.shared
and
.Pa PFRAG.no-shared
files, handling shared libraries, GNU
.Xr info 1
files, setuid files, and empty directories.
It moves existing files to
.Pa PLIST.orig ,
.Pa PFRAG.shared.orig
and
.Pa PFRAG.no-shared.orig .
If the generated lists include files and directories that shouldn't be
included, comment these like this:
.Bd -literal
@comment unwanted-file
@comment @dirrm unwanted-dir
.Ed
.Pp
Subsequent calls to
.Ar update-plist
will automatically recognize and handle such lines correctly.
.Pp
.Ar update-plist
does not handle flavor situations yet, so beware.
.El
.Sh VARIABLES
Note that some variables are marked as
.Sq User-settings ,
which means that individual ports should not modify them,
and that some variables are marked as
.Sq read-only ,
which means that they shouldn't ever be changed.
In a
.Ev MULTI_PACKAGES
setup, some variables have settings specific to a given subpackage.
See
.Qq Flavors and multi-packages .
.Bl -tag -width MASTER_SITES
.It Ev show
Invoked as make show=name, show the contents of ${name}.
Invoked as make show="name1 name2 ...", show the contents of
${name1} ${name2} ...,
one variable value per line.
.It Ev ALL_FAKE_FLAGS
Flags passed to ${MAKE} invocations during the fake process.
Equals
.Li ${MAKE_FLAGS} ${DESTDIRNAME}=${WRKINST} ${FAKE_FLAGS} .
Read-only.
.It Ev ALL_REGRESS_FLAGS
Flags passed to ${MAKE} invocations during regress.
Equals
.Li ${MAKE_FLAGS} ${REGRESS_FLAGS} .
Read-only.
.It Ev ALL_TARGET
Target used to build software.
Default is
.Sq all .
Can be set to empty, to yield a package's default target.
.It Ev APM_ARCHS
Set to the list of
.Xr apm 4
architectures.
Use with
.Ev ONLY_FOR_ARCHS .
.It Ev ARCH
Current machine architecture.
Read-only.
.It Ev AUTOCONF
Location of the autoconf binary if needed.
Defaults to autoconf (though make autoreconf might be more appropriate).
.It Ev AUTOCONF_DIR
Where to invoke autoconf if ${CONFIGURE_STYLE} includes autoconf.
Defaults to ${WRKSRC}.
.\" AUTOCONF_DIR should probably be a list, and be renamed to AUTOCONF_DIRS ?
.It Ev AUTOCONF_VERSION
Starting with
.Ox 3.3 ,
several versions of autoconf may coexist peacefully.
Setting
.Ev AUTOCONF_VERSION
along with
.Ev CONFIGURE_STYLE
set to autoconf is the correct way to specify which one to use.
If autoconf must be run manually,
.Ev MODGNU_AUTOCONF_DEPENDS
can be used to specify what packages to depend upon.
.It Ev BASE_PKGPATH
Full pkgpath to the current port, taking flavors into account.
Read-only.
.It Ev BATCH
User-settings.
Set to
.Sq Yes
to avoid ports that require user-interaction.
Use in conjunction with
.Ev INTERACTIVE
to simplify bulk-package builds.
.Pq See IGNORE .
.It Ev BROKEN
Define only for broken ports, set to reason the port is broken.
See also
.Ev NO_IGNORE ,
.Ev TRY_BROKEN .
.It Ev BROKEN-<arch>
Define only for ports broken on a given architecture.
Distinct from
.Ev ONLY_FOR_ARCHS
and
.Ev NOT_FOR_ARCHS ,
which are used to mark ports for which support for some architectures
does not exist at all, or is completely obsolete.
.It Ev BSD_INSTALL_{PROGRAM,SCRIPT,DATA,MAN}[_DIR]
Macros passed to make and configure invocations.
Set based on corresponding INSTALL_* variables.
.It Ev BUILD_DEPENDS
List of other ports the current port needs to build correctly.
Each item has the form
.Sq [pkgspec:]directory[,-subpackage][,flavor ...][:target] .
.Sq target
defaults to
.Sq install
if it is not specified.
.Sq legacy
used to be a file to check.
The ports tree now uses
.Sq pkgspec
instead, as a package that must be installed prior to the build.
.Sq directory
is set relative to ${PORTSDIR}.
.Sq subpackage
is an optional subpackage name, to install instead of the default main
package name.
.Sq flavor ...
is a comma separated list of flavors.
By default, the dependency will build the default flavor.
Build dependencies are checked at the beginning of the extract stage.
.Pp
Build dependencies that are not the default
.Ar package
or
.Ar install
target will be processed in a subdirectory of the working directory,
specifically, in ${WRKDIR}/directory.
.It Ev BUILD_PKGPATH
Full pkgpath to the current port, taking flavors and pseudo-flavors
into account.
Mostly useful to write dependencies for subpackages like this:
.Li "LIB_DEPENDS-foo=::${BUILD_PKGPATH}"
and avoid starting to build a package with some other flavor combination.
Read-only.
.It Ev BULK
User settings.
If set to
.Sq Yes ,
successful package builds and installations will clean
their working directories, after invoking
any targets mentioned in BULK_TARGETS,
and commands mentioned in BULK_DO.
Can be set on a per-${PKGPATH} basis.
For instance, setting BULK_misc/screen=No
will override any BULK=Yes passed on the command line.
See
.Ev BULK_COOKIES_DIR ,
.Ev TRUST_PACKAGES .
.It Ev BULK_COOKIES_DIR
User settings.
Used to store cookies for successful bulk-package builds, defaults to
.Pa ${PORTSDIR}/bulk/${MACHINE_ARCH} .
.It Ev BULK_DO
Commands to run after each bulk package build before cleaning up the
working directory.
Empty defaults.
Can be set on a per-${PKGPATH} basis, e.g.,
BULK_DO_${PKGPATH}=...
.It Ev BULK_FLAGS
Flags to pass to build each target in
.Ev BULK_TARGETS .
.It Ev BULK_TARGETS
Targets to run after each bulk package build before cleaning up the
working directory.
Empty defaults.
Can be set on a per-${PKGPATH} basis, e.g.,
BULK_TARGETS_${PKGPATH}=...
.It Ev BZIP2
Name of the bzip2 binary.
.It Ev CATEGORIES
List of descriptive categories into which this port falls.
Mandatory.
See
.Ar link-categories ,
.Ar unlink-categories .
.It Ev CDIAGFLAGS
Flags appended to
.Ev CFLAGS
if
.Ev WARNINGS
is set.
.It Ev CCACHE_DIR
Sets the cache directory used when
.Ev USE_CCACHE
is set to yes.
Defaults to ${WRKOBJDIR}/.ccache.
Can be set on a per-${PKGPATH} basis.
For instance, setting CCACHE_DIR_www/mozilla=/tmp/ccache
will affect only the mozilla port.
.It Ev CCACHE_ENV
Sets additional environment variables when
.Ev USE_CCACHE
is set to yes.
For instance, to enable verbose logging, set
CCACHE_ENV="CCACHE_LOGFILE=/tmp/ccache.log"
.It Ev CDROM_SITE
Path to a local database that holds distribution files (usually a CD-ROM
or other similar media), used to retrieve distribution files before going
to the network.
Defaults to empty, set to
.Pa /cdrom/distfiles/${DIST_SUBDIR}
to check that path.
Distribution files are still copied or linked (see
.Ev FETCH_SYMLINK_DISFILES )
into
.Ev DISTDIR
if they are found under CDROM_SITE.
.It Ev CFLAGS
Default flags passed to the compiler for building.
Many ports ignore it.
See also
.Ev COPTS ,
.Ev CDIAGFLAGS .
.It Ev CHECK_LIB_DEPENDS
User settings.
If set to
.Sq Yes ,
every package build will verify that shared libraries are correctly
registered.
Defaults to
.Sq \&No ,
as this can be a big performance hit.
.It Ev CHECKSUMFILES
List of all files that need to be retrieved by
.Ar fetch ,
with
.Ev DIST_SUBDIR
prepended and with master site selection extension removed.
Read-only.
See also
.Ev MAKESUMFILES .
.It Ev CHECKSUM_FILE
Location for this port's checksums, used by
.Ar addsum ,
.Ar checksum ,
and
.Ar makesum .
Defaults to distinfo.
.It Ev CLEANDEPENDS
If set to
.Sq Yes ,
.Sq make clean
will also clean dependencies.
Can be overridden on a per-${PKGPATH} basis,
by setting CLEANDEPENDS_${PKGPATH}.
.It Ev COMMENT
Short, one line description of the port, used for the package, and in the
INDEX.
.It Ev COMMENT-foo
Same as COMMENT but used for sub package -foo in a multi-package setup.
.It Ev COMMENT-vanilla
Same as COMMENT but used for a flavored package, if the non-flavored comment
is inappropriate.
.It Ev COMMENT-foo-vanilla
Same as COMMENT but used for a sub-, flavored package.
.It Ev COMES_WITH
The first release where the port was made part of the standard
distribution.
If the current
.Ox
version is >= this version then a notice
will be displayed instead of the port being built.
.It Ev CONFIGURE_ARGS
Arguments to pass to configure script.
Defaults are empty, except for
GNU-style configure, where prefix and sysconfdir are set.
.It Ev CONFIGURE_ENV
Basic environment passed to configure script (path and libtool setup).
GNU-style configure adds a lot more variables.
.It Ev CONFIGURE_SCRIPT
Set to name of script invoked by
.Ar configure
target, if appropriate.
Should be either an absolute path, or relative to ${WRKSRC}.
.It Ev CONFIGURE_SHARED
Set by default to --enable-shared or --disable-shared, depending on whether
the architecture supports shared libraries.
Should be appended to CONFIGURE_ARGS, for ports that build dynamic libraries
and whose configure script supports these options.
.It Ev CONFIGURE_STYLE
Set to style of configuration that needs to happen.
If
.Sq perl ,
assume
.Xr perl 1
.Xr ExtUtils::MakeMaker 3p
style.
Add
.Sq modbuild ,
to enable
.Xr perl 1
.Xr Module::Build 3p
or
.Sq modinst
for
.Xr Module::Install 3p
style.
If
.Sq gnu ,
assume
GNU configure style.
Add
.Sq dest
if port does not handle DESTDIR correctly, and needs to be configured to
add DESTDIR to prefixes
.Po
see also
.Ev DESTDIRNAME
.Pc .
Add
.Sq old
if port is an older autoconf port that does not recognize --sysconfdir.
Add
.Sq autoconf
if autoconf needs to be rerun first,
but set
.Sq no-autoheader
to prevent autoheader from running.
Add
.Sq automake
if automake may need to be rerun.
Otherwise, automake will be explicitly disabled.
If
.Sq imake ,
assume port configures using X11 ports Imakefile framework.
Add
.Sq noman
if port has no man pages the Imakefile should try installing.
If
.Sq simple ,
there is a configure script, but it does not fit the normal GNU configure
conventions.
.Pp
Extensions may be defined by specific MODULES.
See
.Xr port-modules 5
for details.
.It Ev COPTS
User settings.
Supplementary options appended to ${CFLAGS} for building.
Since most ports ignore the COPTS convention, they are actually told to use
${CFLAGS} ${COPTS} as CFLAGS.
.It Ev CXXDIAGFLAGS
Flags appended to
.Ev CXXFLAGS
if
.Ev WARNINGS
is set.
.It Ev CXXFLAGS
Default flags passed to the C++ compiler for building.
Many ports ignore it.
.It Ev CXXOPTS
User settings.
Supplementary options appended to ${CXXFLAGS} for building.
.It Ev DEF_UMASK
Correct value of umask for the port to build and package correctly.
Tested against the actual umask at
.Ar fake
time.
Default is 022.
Don't override.
.It Ev DESTDIR
See
.Ev DESTDIRNAME .
.It Ev DESTDIRNAME
Name of variable to set to ${WRKINST} while faking.
Usually DESTDIR.
To be used in the rare cases where a port heeds DESTDIR in a few
directories and needs to be configured with
.Sq gnu dest ,
so that those few directories do not get in the way.
.It Ev DISTDIR
Directory where all ports distribution files and patchfiles are stashed.
Defaults to
.Pa ${PORTSDIR}/distfiles .
Override if distribution files are stored elsewhere.
Always use
.Ev FULLDISTDIR
to refer to ports' distribution files location, as it takes an eventual
.Ev DIST_SUBDIR
into account.
.It Ev DISTFILES
The main port's distribution files (the actual software source, except
for binary-only ports).
Will be retrieved from the MASTER_SITES (see
.Ar fetch ) ,
checksummed and extracted (see
.Ar checksum ,
.Ar extract ) .
.Ev DISTFILES
normally holds a list of files, possibly with
.Sq :0
to
.Sq :9
appended to select a different
.Ev MASTER_SITES .
See also
.Ev SUPDISTFILES .
.It Ev DISTNAME
Name used to identify the port.
See
.Ev DISTFILES
and
.Ev PKGNAME .
.It Ev DISTORIG
Suffix used by
.Ar distpatch
to rename original files.
Defaults to
.Pa .bak.orig .
Distinct from
.Pa .orig
to avoid confusing
.Ar update-patches .
.It Ev DIST_SUBDIR
Optional subdirectory of ${DISTDIR} where the current port's distribution
files and patchfiles will be located.
See target
.Ar fetch .
.It Ev DPB
Set by the distributed ports builder to only get the information it needs
from
.Ar dump-vars .
.It Ev ECHO_MSG
User settings.
Used to display
.Sq ===> Configuring for foo
and similar informative messages.
Override to turn off, for instance.
.It Ev ECHO_REORDER
User settings.
Set it to
.Sq echo
to see
.Ev REORDER_DEPENDENCIES
actions.
Silent by default.
.It Ev EPOCH
Epoch number of the current package.
Defaults to empty (no need for numbering changes), then
numbering starts at 0.
Gets automatically incorporated into
.Ev FULLPKGNAME
as
.Sq v${EPOCH}
to form a full package-name conforming to
.Xr packages-specs 7 .
.It Ev ERRORS
List of errors found while parsing the port's Makefile.
Display the errors before making any target, and if any error starts with
.Qq Fatal: ,
do not make anything.
For instance:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
\&.if !defined(COMMENT)
ERRORS+="Fatal: Missing comment"
\&.endif
.Ed
.It Ev EXTRACT_CASES
In the normal extraction stage (when
.Ev EXTRACT_ONLY
is not empty), this is the contents of a case statement, used to extract files.
Fragments are automatically appended to extract tar, xz and zip
archives, so that the default case is equivalent to the following shell
fragment:
.Bd -literal
set -e
cd ${WRKDIR}
for archive in ${EXTRACT_ONLY}
do
    case $$archive in
    	*.tar.xz)
	  xzcat ${FULLDISTDIR}/$$archive| tar xf -;;
	*.zip)
	  unzip -q ${FULLDISTDIR}/$$archive -d ${WRKDIR};;
	*.tar.bz2)
	  bzip2 -dc ${FULLDISTDIR}/$$archive| tar xf -;;
	*.shar.gz|*.shar.Z|*.sh.Z|*.sh.gz)
	  gzcat ${FULLDISTDIR}/$$archive | /bin/sh;;
	*.shar|*.sh)
	  /bin/sh ${FULLDISTDIR}/$$archive;;
	*.tar)
	  tar xf ${FULLDISTDIR}/$$archive;;
	*)
	  gzip -dc ${FULLDISTDIR}/$$archive | tar xf -;;
    esac
done
.Ed
The use of xz archives is discouraged, as it makes things impossible to
build on vax and very annoying on sparc.
.It Ev EXTRACT_ONLY
Set if not all ${DISTFILES} should be extracted at do-extract stage.
Default value is ${DISTFILES}.
.It Ev EXTRACT_SUFX
Used to set DISTFILES default value to ${DISTNAME}${EXTRACT_SUFX}.
Default value is .tar.gz.
.It Ev FAKE_FLAGS
Extra flags passed to ${MAKE_PROGRAM} on fake invocation.
Empty by default.
.It Ev FAKE_TARGET
Target built by ${MAKE_PROGRAM} on fake invocation.
Defaults to ${INSTALL_TARGET}.
.It Ev FAKEOBJDIR
If non empty, used as a base for the fake area.
The real fake directory ${WRKINST} is created there.
Can be set on a per-${PKGPATH} basis.
For instance, setting FAKEOBJDIR_www/mozilla=/tmp/obj
will affect only the mozilla port.
.It Ev FETCH_CMD
Command used to fetch distribution files for this port.
Defaults to
.Xr ftp 1 .
User settings.
Can be used to go through excessively paranoid firewalls.
.It Ev FETCH_MANUALLY
Some ports' distfiles cannot be fetched automatically for licensing reasons.
In this case, set
.Ev FETCH_MANUALLY
to a list of strings that will be displayed, one per line, e.g.,
.Bd -literal
FETCH_MANUALLY= "You must fetch foo-1.0.tgz"
FETCH_MANUALLY+="from http://www.fubar.com/ manually,"
FETCH_MANUALLY+="after reading and agreeing to the license."
.Ed
Automatically sets
.Ev IS_INTERACTIVE
if some distribution files are missing.
.It Ev FETCH_PACKAGES
User settings.
If set to
.Sq Yes ,
the
.Ar package
target will download packages missing from the repository from locations in
${PKG_PATH} and place them into
.Pa ${PACKAGE_REPOSITORY}/${MACHINE_ARCH}/cache/
It will only build them if no suitable packages are found.
.It Ev FETCH_SYMLINK_DISTFILES
User settings.
Set to
.Sq Yes
to link distribution files off
.Ev CDROM_SITE
instead of copying them.
.It Ev FILESDIR
Location of other files related to the current ports.
(default: files.${ARCH} or files).
.It Ev FLAVOR
The port's current options.
Set by the user, and tested by the port to activate wanted functionalities.
.It Ev FLAVORS
List of all flavors keywords a port may match.
Used to sort FLAVOR into a canonical order to build the package name,
or to select the packing-list, and as a quick validity check.
See also
.Ev PSEUDO_FLAVORS .
.It Ev FLAVOR_EXT
Canonical list of flavors being set for the current build, dash-separated.
See
.Ev FULLPKGNAME .
.It Ev FORCE_UPDATE
User settings.
If set to
.Sq Yes ,
the
.Ar update
target will always update an installed package,
as soon as its signature differs,
and all dependencies that install packages will
also force an update.
If set to
.Sq hard ,
the
.Ar update
target will also update installed packages even when the signature
did not change.
.It Ev FULLDISTDIR
Complete path to directory where ${DISTFILES} and ${PATCHFILES} will be
located, to be used in hand-crafted extraction targets.
Read-only.
.It Ev FULLPKGNAME
Full name of the created package, taking flavors into account.
Defaults to ${PKGNAME}${FLAVOR_EXT}.
See also
.Ev EPOCH
and
.Ev REVISION .
.It Ev FULLPKGPATH
Path to the current port's directory, relative to ${PORTSDIR},
including flavors and subpackages.
.It Ev GCC2_ARCHS , GCC3_ARCHS , GCC4_ARCHS
Set to the list of architectures using gcc 2.95.3, gcc 3.3.5, or gcc 4.2.1.
Read-only.
Use with
.Ev NOT_FOR_ARCHS
or
.Ev ONLY_FOR_ARCHS
to limit ports to architectures where they compile.
.It Ev GMAKE
Location of the GNU make binary, if needed.
Defaults to gmake.
.It Ev HOMEPAGE
Set to a link to the homepage of the software, if applicable.
.It Ev IGNORE
Usually set to the reasons for which the port is ignored.
If non-empty, most common targets that do something (e.g.,
.Ar fetch ,
.Ar build ,
.Ar install ...)
will be ignored.
See also
.Ev BATCH ,
.Ev BROKEN ,
.Ev IGNORE_IS_FATAL ,
.Ev IGNORE_SILENT ,
.Ev INTERACTIVE ,
.Ev IS_INTERACTIVE ,
.Ev NOT_FOR_ARCHS ,
.Ev NO_IGNORE ,
.Ev ONLY_FOR_ARCHS .
.It Ev IGNORE_IS_FATAL
If set to
.Sq Yes ,
ignored ports will become fatal errors.
.It Ev IGNORE_SILENT
If set to
.Sq Yes ,
do not print anything when ignoring a port.
.It Ev INSTALL_{PROGRAM,SCRIPT,DATA,MAN}[_DIR]
Macros to use to install a program, a script, data, or a man page (or the
corresponding directory), respectively.
.It Ev INSTALL_TARGET
Target invoked to install the software, during fake installation.
Default is
.Sq install .
.It Ev INTERACTIVE
User settings.
Set to
.Sq Yes
to skip all non-interactive ports.
Used in conjunction with
.Ev BATCH
to simplify bulk-package builds.
.It Ev IS_INTERACTIVE
Set to
.Sq Yes
if port needs human interaction to build.
Usually implies NO_PACKAGE as well.
Porters should strive to minimize IS_INTERACTIVE ports, by using
FLAVORS for multiple choice ports, and by postponing human intervention
to package installation time.
.It Ev LIB_DEPENDS
Libraries this port depends upon.
Each item has the form
.Sq [pkgspec:]directory[,-subpackage][,flavor ...] .
Similar to
.Ev BUILD_DEPENDS
and
.Ev RUN_DEPENDS ,
but with specific rules:
.Ev LIB_DEPENDS
always turn into
.Ev BUILD_DEPENDS .
.Pp
On architectures that use dynamic libraries,
.Ev LIB_DEPENDS
is also used as a run-time dependency, and recorded in the package as
such, if any of the libraries mentioned in
.Ev WANTLIB
is a shared library that originates within the dependant port.
.Pp
See
.Xr library-specs 7
for more details.
.Pp
.It Ev LIBTOOL
Location of the libtool binary for ports that set
.Ev USE_LIBTOOL
(default: ${LOCALBASE}/bin/libtool).
.It Ev LIBTOOL_FLAGS
Arguments to pass to libtool.
If USE_LIBTOOL is set, the environment variable LIBTOOL is set
to ${LIBTOOL} ${LIBTOOL_FLAGS}.
.It Ev LOCALBASE
where other ports have already been installed (default: /usr/local)
.It Ev LOCKDIR
User settings.
Defaults to
.Pa /tmp/portslocks .
If set, points to a directory common for all instances of concurrent ports
builds.
.It Ev LOCK_CMD
Expands to a command that will acquire a lock.
See also
.Xr ports 7 .
.It Ev LOCK_VERBOSE
User settings.
Defaults to
.Sq No .
Set to
.Sq Yes
to show every acquire/release lock operation.
.It Ev LP64_ARCHS
Set to the list of 64-bit architectures.
Read-only.
Use with
.Ev NOT_FOR_ARCHS .
.It Ev MAINTAINER
E-mail address with full name of the port's maintainer.
Defaults to ports@openbsd.org.
.It Ev MAKE_ENV
Environment variables passed to make invocations.
Sets at least PATH, PREFIX, LOCALBASE, X11BASE, CFLAGS, TRUEPREFIX, DESTDIR,
and the BSD_INSTALL_* macros.
.It Ev MAKE_FLAGS
Flags used for all make invocations, except for the
.Ar fake
stage, which adds
.Ev FAKE_FLAGS
(see
.Ev ALL_FAKE_FLAGS )
and for the regress stage, which adds
.Ev REGRESS_FLAGS
(see
.Ev ALL_REGRESS_FLAGS ) .
.It Ev MAKE_FILE
Name of the Makefile used for ports building.
Defaults to Makefile.
Used after changing directory to ${WRKBUILD}.
.It Ev MAKE_PROGRAM
The make program that is used for building the port.
Set to ${MAKE} or ${GMAKE} depending on USE_GMAKE.
Read-only.
.It Ev MAKESUMFILES
List of all files that need to be retrieved by
.Ar fetch-all ,
with
.Ev DIST_SUBDIR
prepended and with master site selection extension removed.
Read-only.
See also
.Ev CHECKSUMFILES .
.It Ev MASTER_SITES
List of primary location from which distribution files and patchfiles are
retrieved.
See the
.Ar fetch
target for more details.
See
.Xr ports 7
for user configuration.
.It Ev MASTER_SITES0 , ... , MASTER_SITES9
Supplementary locations from which distribution files and patchfiles are
retrieved.
.It Ev MESSAGE
File recorded in the package and displayed during installation.
Defaults to ${PKGDIR}/MESSAGE if this file exists.
Leave empty if no message is needed.
.It Ev MTREE_FILE
.Xr mtree 8
specification to check when creating a PLIST with the
.Ar update-plist
target.
.Ev MTREE_FILE
can hold a list of file names, to which
.Pa ${PORTSDIR}/infrastructure/db/fake.mtree
is always appended.
These specifications are rooted at
.Pa ${WRKINST} ,
and are subject to
.Ev SUBST_VARS
substitution, to ease
.Pa ${PREFIX}
independence.
This feature is primarily intended for large, interconnected ports,
such as the kde suite, where a base package sets up a large, extra
directory hierarchy that would make the manual checking of packing lists
tedious.
.It Ev MODGNU_CONFIG_GUESS_DIRS
If a port uses config.guess outside WRKSRC, the directories
containing the other copies must be set here.
.It Ev MODULES
External modules mechanism, documented separately.
See
.Xr port-modules 5 .
.It Ev MULTI_PACKAGES
Set to a list of package extensions for ports that create multiple packages.
See
.Qq Flavors and multi-packages
below.
Especially read the part about
.Ev ONLY_FOR_ARCHS
as some of the packages only exist for some architectures.
.It Ev NOT_FOR_ARCHS
List of architectures on which this port does not build.
See also
.Ev ONLY_FOR_ARCHS .
See also
.Ev SHARED_ONLY .
Do not use instead of
.Ev SHARED_ONLY
without very good reasons.
.It Ev NO_BUILD
Port does not need any build stage.
.It Ev NO_CCACHE
Set to
.Sq Yes
to prevent ccache from being used when building a certain port,
even when
.Ev USE_CCACHE
is set.
.It Ev NO_CHECKSUM
Set to
.Sq Yes
to avoid
.Ar checksum ,
.Ar makesum ,
and
.Ar addsum
actions entirely.
User settings.
Beware of the full implications of this mechanism, namely that it disables
entirely the basic authentication mechanisms of the ports tree.
.It Ev NO_DEPENDS
User settings.
Don't verify build of dependencies.
Do not use in any ports Makefile.
This is only meant as a user convenience when, e.g., you just want to browse
through a given port's source and do not wish to trigger the build of
dependencies.
.It Ev NO_IGNORE
User settings.
If set to
.Sq Yes ,
avoid ignoring a port for the usual reasons.
Use, for instance, for fetching all distribution files, or for fixing a
broken port.
See also
.Ev IGNORE .
.It Ev NO_REGRESS
Port does not have any regression targets.
.It Ev NO_SHARED_ARCHS
Set to the list of platforms that do not support shared libraries.
Use with
.Ev NOT_FOR_ARCHS .
.It Ev NO_SHARED_LIBS
Set to
.Sq Yes
if platform does not support shared libraries.
To be tested after including
.Nm bsd.port.mk ,
if neither PFRAG.shared nor CONFIGURE_SHARED are enough.
.It Ev NO_SYSTRACE
Port does not build with systrace enabled build targets.
.It Ev ONLY_FOR_ARCHS
List of architectures on which this port builds.
Can hold both processor-specific information (e.g., m68k), and more
specific model information (e.g., hp300).
This is subpackage dependent.
Read the corresponding part of
.Qq Flavors and multi-packages
if some subpackages should only be built on some architectures.
.It Ev OSREV
Revision number of
.Ox .
Read-only.
.It Ev PACKAGE_REPOSITORY
User settings.
Default location for built packages.
Defaults to
.Pa ${PORTSDIR}/packages .
See
.Ar package
for details.
.It Ev PATCH
Command to use to apply all patches.
Defaults to
.Pa /usr/bin/patch .
.It Ev PATCHORIG
Suffix used by
.Ar patch
to rename original files, and
.Ar update-patches
to re-generate
.Pa ${PATCHDIR}/${PATCH_LIST}
by looking for files using this suffix.
Defaults to
.Pa .orig .
For a port that already contains
.Pa .orig
files in the ${DISTFILES},
set this to something else, such as
.Pa .pat.orig .
See also
.Ar distpatch ,
.Ev DISTORIG .
.It Ev PATCH_CASES
In the normal distpatch stage (when
.Ev PATCHFILES
is not empty), this is the contents of a case statement, used to apply
distribution patches.
Fragments are automatically appended to handle gzip'ed and bzip'ed
patches, so that the default case is equivalent to the following shell
fragment:
.Bd -literal
set -e
cd ${FULLDISTDIR}
for patchfile in ${_PATCHFILES}
do
    case $$patchfile in
	*.bz2)
	  bzip2 -dc $$patchfile | ${PATCH} ${PATCH_DIST_ARGS};;
	*.Z|*.gz)
	  gzcat $$patchfile | ${PATCH} ${PATCH_DIST_ARGS};;
	*)
	  ${PATCH} ${PATCH_DIST_ARGS} <$$patchfile;;
    esac
done
.Ed
.It Ev PATCHDIR
Location for patches applied by patch target (default: patches.${ARCH} or
patches).
.It Ev PATCHFILES
Files to fetch from the master sites like
.Ev DISTFILES ,
but serving a different purpose, as they hold distribution patches that
will be applied at the
.Ar patch
stage.
See also
.Ev SUPDISTFILES .
.It Ev PATCH_ARGS
Full list of options used while applying port's patches.
.It Ev PATCH_CHECK_ONLY
Set to Yes by the
.Ar checkpatch
target.
Don't touch unless the default
.Ar checkpatch
target needs to be redefined.
Ideally, user-defined patch subtargets ought to test checkpatch.
In practice, they don't.
.It Ev PATCH_DEBUG
If set to
.Sq Yes ,
the
.Ar patch
stage will output extra debug information.
.It Ev PATCH_DIST_ARGS
Full list of options used while applying distribution patches.
.It Ev PATCH_DIST_STRIP
Patch option used to strip directory levels while applying distribution
patches.
Defaults to -p0 .
.It Ev PATCH_LIST
Wildcard pattern of patches to select under ${PATCHDIR} (default: patch-*).
Note that filenames ending in .orig, or ~ are never applied.
Note that
.Ev PATCH_LIST
can hold absolute pathnames, for instance to share patches among similar
ports:
.Bd -literal
PATCH_LIST=${PORTSDIR}/x11/kde/libs2/patches/p-* patch-*
.Ed
.It Ev PATCH_STRIP
Patch option used to strip directory levels while applying port's patches.
Defaults to -p0 .
.It Ev PERMIT_{DISTFILES,PACKAGE}_{CDROM,FTP}
Set to
.Sq Yes
if package or distribution files can be allowed on FTP sites or CD-ROM without
legal issues.
Set to reason not to otherwise.
PERMIT_* lines in the Makefile should be preceded with a comment explaining
details about licensing and patents issues the port may have.
Porters must be very thorough in their checks.
In case of doubt, ask.
.It Ev PKG_ADD
Path to
.Xr pkg_add 1
command, with possible options.
.It Ev PKG_ARCH
Comma-separated list of architectures on which this package may install.
Defaults to ${MACHINE_ARCH},${ARCH}.
Use * to mean any arch.
.It Ev PKG_CREATE
Path to
.Xr pkg_create 1
command, with possible options.
.It Ev PKG_DBDIR
Path to package installation records.
Defaults to
.Pa /var/db/pkg .
User settings.
.It Ev PKG_DELETE
Path to
.Xr pkg_delete 1
command, with possible options.
.It Ev PKG_INFO
Path to
.Xr pkg_info 1
command, with possible options.
.It Ev PORTHOME
Setting of env variable
.Ev HOME
for most shell invocations.
Default will trip ports that try to write into $HOME while building.
.It Ev PORTPATH
Path used by most shell invocations.
Don't override unless really needed.
.It Ev PORTSDIR
Root of the ports tree (default:
.Pa /usr/ports ) .
.It Ev PORTSDIR_PATH
Path used by dependencies and
.Pa bsd.port.subdir.mk
to look up package specifications.
Defaults to
.Pa ${PORTSDIR}:${PORTSDIR}/mystuff .
.It Ev PKGDIR
Location for packaging information (packing list, port description, messages).
Default: pkg.${ARCH} or pkg.
.It Ev PKGNAME
Name of the created package.
Default is ${DISTNAME}.
This does not take flavors into account.
See
.Ev FULLPKGNAME
for that.
Specific revisions and epoch changes should be
handled by
.Ev REVISION
and
.Ev EPOCH
instead.
.It Ev PKGNAMES
Read-only.
List of all package names generated by the port, with
.Ev FLAVORS
and
.Ev MULTI_PACKAGES
taken into account.
Mostly used as
.Sq make show=PKGNAMES
to verify that bumped package names are correct.
.It Ev PKGNAME-foo
Package name for sub-package foo, if the default value
of ${PKGNAME}${SUBPACKAGE} is not appropriate.
.It Ev PKGPATH
Path to the current port's directory, relative to ${PORTSDIR}.
Read-only.
.It Ev PKGSPEC
default package spec for using this port as a dependency.
Defaults to
.Sq stem-* ,
derived from the
.Ev FULLPKGNAME .
Do not override without very good reasons,
namely software that coexist as different incompatible versions with the
same stem, e.g., already a mess.
.It Ev PLIST_DB
User settings.
Directory used to save generated packing-lists, as persistent information.
Packing-lists are processed by a script, register-plist, which complains
when packing-lists change without a REVISION bump.
This directory is never cleaned during normal operation.
.Sq make clean=plist
should only ever be used during debugging by port maintainers.
Defaults to
.Pa ${PORTSDIR}/plist/${MACHINE_ARCH} .
.It Ev PREFERRED_CIPHERS
List of cryptographic ciphers to use, in order of preference.
Default is
.Sq sha256 sha1 rmd160 md5 .
The first cipher that matches in ${CHECKSUM_FILE} is verified.
.It Ev PREFIX
Base directory for the current port installation.
Usually ${LOCALBASE}, though some ports may elect a location under
.Pa /var ,
and some multi-package ports may install under several locations.
.It Ev PROGRESS_METER
User-settings.
Defaults to
.Sq Yes .
Forces commands like
.Xr ftp 1 ,
.Xr pkg_create 1 ...
to use their progress-meter even in the absence of a terminal.
.It Ev PSEUDO_FLAVORS
Extra list of flavors that do not register in package names, but are still
used to control build logic, and e.g., working directory names.
Its main use is for disabling part of a multi-packages build, for instance:
.Bd -literal
FLAVOR=no_gnome make package
.Ed
.Pp
Creation of a separate working directory is mandatory.
If, at a later time, a full build with all subpackages is required,
all the work will need to be done again.
.It Ev RCDIR
Location for daemon startup scripts.
Defaults to
.Pa /etc/rc.d .
Do not change.
.It Ev REFETCH
User settings.
If set to true,
.Ar checksum
will analyze ${CHECKSUM_FILE}, and try retrieving files with the correct
checksum off
.Pa ftp.openbsd.org ,
in the directory
.Pa /pub/OpenBSD/distfiles/$cipher/$value/$file .
.It Ev REGRESS_DEPENDS
See
.Ev BUILD_DEPENDS
for specification.
Regress dependencies are only checked if the regress stage is invoked.
.It Ev REGRESS_FLAGS
Extra flags passed to ${MAKE_PROGRAM} to run the regression tests.
Empty by default.
.It Ev REGRESS_IS_INTERACTIVE
Set to
.Sq Yes
if port needs human interaction to run its tests, or set to
.Sq X11
if the tests need an active X11 display to work.
.It Ev REGRESS_LOG
Command used to log the results of regression tests to REGRESS_LOGFILE.
.It Ev REGRESS_LOGFILE
Log file containing the results of regression tests.
.It Ev REGRESS_TARGET
Target to run regression tests.
Defaults to
.Sq regress ,
except for
.Sq perl
and
.Sq gnu
.Ev CONFIGURE_STYLE ,
which default to
.Sq test
and
.Sq check
respectively.
.It Ev REORDER_DEPENDENCIES
Points to a list of files that specify inter-dependencies for
.Xr make 1 .
If defined, each line of the file is either a comment (starting with #)
or a pair of two files: most_recent older.
At the end of
.Ar post-patch ,
.Xr touch 1
will be used to ensure those files are put in the proper order.
The files are assumed to be under
.Pa ${WRKSRC} .
The notation /file can be used to ask for a recursive search, e.g.,
to make sure that all Makefile.in are up-to-date.
See
.Pa ${PORTSDIR}/infrastructure/mk/automake.dep
for an example.
.It Ev REPORT_PROBLEM
See
.Xr ports 7 .
.It Ev REPORT_PROBLEM_LOGFILE
See
.Xr ports 7 .
.It Ev REVISION
Revision number of the current package.
Defaults to empty (very first package), then
numbering starts at 0.
Gets automatically incorporated into
.Ev FULLPKGNAME
as
.Sq p${REVISION}
to form a full package-name conforming to
.Xr packages-specs 7 .
.It Ev RUN_DEPENDS
Specification of ports this port needs installed to be functional.
Same format as BUILD_DEPENDS.
The corresponding packages will be built at
.Ar install
stage, and
.Xr pkg_add 1
will take care of installing them.
.It Ev SEPARATE_BUILD
Many GNU configure ports can be built in a directory distinct from the
place they were unpacked.
For some specific ports, this is even mandatory.
Set to
.Sq yes
or
.Sq simple
if this is the case.
The ports infrastructure will generate a separate ${WRKBUILD} directory
in which the port will be configured and built.
Wipe ${WRKBUILD} to start anew, but skipping the extract/patch stage.
.It Ev SHARED_LIBS
List of shared libraries that the port may build, as a list of the form
.Sq libname
.Sq libversion .
Used to set variables of the form
.Ev LIBlibname_VERSION
that are then used for substitution by
.Xr pkg_create 1 .
The porter is responsible for making sure the port uses those version numbers
when shared libraries are built.
.Pp
The intent is that the
.Ox
ports system must have control over shared library versions because of global
changes that may require bumping the major version of every shared library in
the system, or simply because the third party programmers do not understand
the rules for shared library versions, thus breaking the update mechanism.
For that reason it is advised to set libversion to 0.0 when first importing a
port.
.Pp
Porters of software using libtool should also set
.Ev USE_LIBTOOL
and make sure
.Ev MAKE_FLAGS
get propagated to the libtool invocations.
This should be enough, in most cases.
.It Ev SHARED_ONLY
Set to
.Sq Yes
if port can only be built on architectures with shared libraries.
.It Ev SKIPDIR
See
.Xr ports 7 .
.It Ev STARTAFTER
See
.Xr ports 7 .
.It Ev STARTDIR
See
.Xr ports 7 .
.It Ev SUBPACKAGE
Set to the sub package suffix when building a package in a multi-package port.
Read-only.
Used to test for dependencies or to adjust the package name.
.It Ev SUBST_CMD
A command that can be used to perform
.Ev SUBST_VARS
substitution on arbitrary files.
In normal mode,
.Pp
.Dl ${SUBST_CMD} file1 file2 ...
.Pp
will substitute files in place, creating backup copies of them.
In copy mode,
.Pp
.Dl ${SUBST_CMD} -c src1 dest1 src2 dest2
.Pp
will copy files over while performing the substitution, as suitable for
copying template files over from
.Pa ${FILESDIR}
to
.Pa ${PREFIX} ,
for instance.
Read-only.
.Pp
.Ev SUBST_CMD
can be used like
.Xr install 1 :
.Dl ${SUBST_CMD} Oo Fl g Ar group Oc Oo Fl o Ar owner Oc file...
to set file
.Ar owner ,
.Ar group
and/or
.Ar mode .
.It Ev SUBST_VARS
Make variables whose values get substituted to create the actual package
information.
Always holds
.Ev ARCH ,
.Ev BASE_PKGPATH ,
.Ev FLAVOR_EXT ,
.Ev FULLPKGNAME ,
.Ev HOMEPAGE ,
.Ev LOCALBASE ,
.Ev MACHINE_ARCH ,
.Ev MAINTAINER ,
.Ev PREFIX ,
.Ev RCDIR ,
.Ev SYSCONFDIR ,
.Ev TRUEPREFIX ,
and
.Ev X11BASE .
The special construct
.Sq ${FLAVORS}
can be used in the packing-list to specify the current list of dash
separated flavors the port is compiled with (useful for cross-dependencies
in
.Ev MULTI_PACKAGES ) .
Add other
variables as needed.
Some variable names are prefixed by a ^.
This is only relevant for
.Ar update-plist ,
where it means the variable will only be substituted at the beginning of
a path.
.It Ev SUDO
User settings.
If set to
.Xr sudo 8
in
.Xr mk.conf 5 ,
the ports tree will only invoke root's privileges for the parts that
really require it.
.It Ev SUPDISTFILES
Supplementary files that need to be retrieved under some specific
circumstances.
For instance, a port might need architecture-specific files.
.Ev SUPDISTFILES
should hold a list of all distribution files and patchfiles that are not
always needed, so that a mirror will be able to grab all files, or that
.Ar makesum
will work.
Having an overlap between
.Ev SUPDISTFILES
and
.Ev DISTFILES ,
.Ev PATCHFILES
is admissible, and in fact, expected, as it is much simpler to build
an error-free list of files to retrieve in that way.
See the xanim port for an example.
.It Ev SYSCONFDIR
Location for ports system configuration files.
Defaults to
.Pa /etc ,
should never be set to
.Pa /usr/local/etc .
.It Ev SYSTRACE_FILTER
Location of the systrace filter file which is the basis for a port's
actual systrace policy file.
Defaults to
.Pa ${PORTSDIR}/infrastructure/db/systrace.filter .
.It Ev SYSTRACE_SUBST_VARS
List of variables used in ${SYSTRACE_FILTER} that will be substituted
by their real value when creating the systrace policy file.
Always holds
.Ev WRKOBJDIR ,
.Ev PORTSDIR ,
and
.Ev DISTDIR .
.It Ev TAR
Name of the tar binary.
.It Ev TARGETS
Read-only.
Set to the list of special targets for a port
.Po
.Ar {pre,do,post}-*
.Pc .
Used by introspection tools such as the sqlports package.
.It Ev TEMPLATES
Base location for the templates used in the
.Ar readmes
target.
User settings.
.It Ev TRUST_PACKAGES
User settings.
If set to
.Sq Yes ,
dependency mechanisms will assume the database of installed packages is
correct.
See also
.Ev BULK .
.It Ev TRY_BROKEN
User settings.
If set to
.Sq Yes ,
don't set
.Ev IGNORE
for
.Ev BROKEN
ports, so that we will attempt to build them.
.It Ev UNLOCK_CMD
User settings.
If set, expands to a command that will release a lock.
This lock will reside in
.Pa ${LOCKDIR} .
.It Ev UNMESSAGE
File recorded in the package and displayed during deinstallation.
Defaults to ${PKGDIR}/UNMESSAGE if this file exists.
Leave empty if no message is needed.
.It Ev UNZIP
Name of the unzip binary.
.It Ev UPDATE_COOKIES_DIR
User settings.
Used to store cookies for package updates and defaults to
.Pa ${PORTSDIR}/update/${MACHINE_ARCH} .
If set to empty, will revert to a file under
.Pa ${WRKDIR} .
.It Ev USE_CCACHE
User settings.
Set to
.Sq Yes
to use ccache when building ports.
Adds a build dependency on devel/ccache, and sets up the build
environment so that it is used.
.It Ev USE_GMAKE
Set to
.Sq Yes
if GNU make (${GMAKE}) is needed for correct behavior of this port.
.It Ev USE_GROFF
Set to
.Sq Yes
to use groff to build manpages.
This sets groff as a build dependency, and also tells
.Xr pkg_create 1
to format manpages behind the scene using groff while building packages.
.It Ev USE_LIBTOOL
Set to
.Sq Yes
if libtool is required for correct behavior of this port.
Set to
.Sq gnu
if the ports tree libtool is insufficient and GNU libtool is required.
Adds dependencies if necessary, and passes LIBTOOL environment variable to
scripts invocations.
.It Ev USE_SYSTRACE
User settings.
Set to
.Sq Yes
to protect port building with systrace.
.It Ev VMEM_WARNING
Set to
.Sq Yes
if the port requires a lot of memory to compile, and the user is
likely to see a message like
.Qq virtual memory exhausted
with the default process limits.
.It Ev WANTLIB
Extra list of library specifications that a package will need.
May include system and X11 libraries.
See
.Xr library-specs 7
for more details.
.Pp
As a special extension,
.Ev WANTLIB
may include absolute paths, e.g.,
.Pa ${LOCALBASE}/lib/expat.=4
to distinguish between base libraries and port libraries.
Use with caution, this is very seldom needed.
.It Ev WARNINGS
User settings.
If set to
.Sq Yes ,
add
.Ev CDIAGFLAGS
to
.Ev CFLAGS
and
.Ev CXXDIAGFLAGS
to
.Ev CXXFLAGS .
.It Ev WRKBUILD
Subdirectory of ${WRKDIR} where the actual build occurs.
Defaults to ${WRKSRC}, unless SEPARATE_BUILD is involved, in which case
it is set to an appropriate value.
.It Ev WRKCONF
Subdirectory of ${WRKDIR} where the actual configure set occurs.
Defaults to ${WRKBUILD}.
.It Ev WRKDIR
Location where all port activity occurs.
Apart from the actual port, may
hold all kinds of cookies that checkpoint the port's build.
Read-only.
Ports that need to know the WRKDIR of another port must use
cd that_port_dir && make show=WRKDIR for this.
Note that WRKDIR may be a symbolic link.
During ports building,
.Pa ${WRKDIR}/bin
is put at the front of the
.Ev PATH .
.It Ev WRKDIR_LINKNAME
Name of a symbolic link to create within the port directory which will
point to the port's ${WRKDIR}.
.It Ev WRKDIST
Subdirectory of ${WRKDIR} in which the distribution files normally unpacks.
Base for all patches (default: ${WRKDIR}/${DISTNAME}).
Note that WRKDIST may be a symbolic link, if set to ${WRKDIR}.
.It Ev WRKSRC
Subdirectory of ${WRKDIR} where the actual source is.
Base for configuration (default: ${WRKDIST})
Note that WRKSRC may be a symbolic link, if set to ${WRKDIR}.
.It Ev WRKINST
Subdirectory of ${WRKDIR} where port normally installs (see
.Ar fake
target).
.It Ev WRKOBJDIR
Used as a base for the actual port working directory (default:
${PORTSDIR}/pobj).
The real working directory ${WRKDIR} is created there.
Can be set on a per-${PKGPATH} basis.
For instance, setting WRKOBJDIR_www/mozilla=/tmp/obj
will affect only the mozilla port.
If explicitly unset (WRKOBJDIR=), the working directory is
created within the port directory.
.It Ev X11BASE
Where X11 has been installed (default: /usr/X11R6).
.It Ev XMKMF
Invocation of xmkmf for CONFIGURE_STYLE=imake port.
Defaults to xmkmf -a -DPorts.
The -DPorts is specific to
.Ox
and is always appended.
.It Ev YACC
Name of yacc program to pass to GNU-configure, defaults to yacc.
(GNU-configure would always try to use bison otherwise, which leads to
unreproducible builds.)
Set to bison if needed.
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width files/md5
.It Pa ../Makefile.inc
Common Makefile fragment for a set of ports, included automatically.
.It Pa /cdrom/distfiles
Default path to a CD-ROM (or other media) full of distribution files.
.It Pa Makefile.${ARCH}
Arch-dependent Makefile fragment, included automatically.
.It Pa ${DISTDIR}
cache of all distribution files.
.It Pa distinfo
Checksum file.
Holds the output of
.Xr cksum 1 ,
using ${PREFERRED_CIPHERS},
for the port's ${DISTFILES} and ${PATCHFILES},
as well as the sizes of these files.
.It Pa ${DISTDIR}/${CHECKSUMFILES}
cache of normal distribution files for a given port.
.It Pa ${DISTDIR}/${MAKESUMFILES}
cache of all distribution files for a given port.
.It Pa ${PKGDIR}/DESCR
Description for the port.
Variables such as ${HOMEPAGE} and ${MAINTAINER} will be expanded
(see SUBST_VARS).
Multi-package ports will use DESCR${SUBPACKAGE}.
.It Pa ${PKGDIR}/README
.Ox
specific documentation for a port, that will be installed as
.Pa ${LOCALBASE}/share/doc/pkg-readmes/${FULLPKGNAME}
at the end of
.Ar fake .
Variables from
.Ev SUBST_VARS
will be expanded.
Multi-package ports will use README${SUBPACKAGE}.
.It Pa ${PKGDIR}/<foo>.rc
startup script for <foo>.
Will be installed as
.Ar ${RCDIR}/<foo>
at the end of
.Ar fake .
Variables from
.Ev SUBST_VARS
will be expanded.
.It Pa ${PORTSDIR}/infrastructure/db/fake.mtree
Specification used for populating ${WRKINST} at the start of
.Ar fake .
Use
.Ar pre-fake
if this is incomplete.
.It Pa ${PORTSDIR}/packages/${MACHINE_ARCH}/cdrom
Default setup of ${PACKAGE_REPOSITORY}.
.It Pa ${PACKAGE_REPOSITORY}/no-arch
Location of arch-independent packages.
.It Pa ${PACKAGE_REPOSITORY}/${MACHINE_ARCH}/all
Location of all built packages.
.It Pa ${PACKAGE_REPOSITORY}/${MACHINE_ARCH}/cache
Location of packages retrieved through the network.
.It Pa ${PACKAGE_REPOSITORY}/${MACHINE_ARCH}/cdrom
Location of packages suitable for the CD.
.It Pa ${PORTSDIR}/packages/${MACHINE_ARCH}/ftp
Location of packages suitable for FTP.
.It Pa ${PORTSDIR}/bulk/${MACHINE_ARCH}
Default setup of ${BULK_COOKIES_DIR}.
.It Pa ${PORTSDIR}/update/${MACHINE_ARCH}
Default setup of ${UPDATE_COOKIES_DIR}.
.It Pa ${PORTSDIR}/mystuff
Extra directory used to store local ports before committing them.
All depend targets will normally look there after the normal lookup fails.
See
.Ev PORTSDIR_PATH .
.It Pa systrace.filter
List of additional port specific filters, included automatically.
.It Pa systrace.policy
List of additional port specific policies, included automatically.
.El
.Sh OBSOLETE TARGETS
.Bl -tag -width do-configure
.It Ar cdrom-packages , ftp-packages
Links are now created during the
.Ar package
target.
.It Ar depends-list
Renamed into
.Ar full-build-depends
.It Ar {pre,do}-extract
Don't override.
Set
.Ev EXTRACT_ONLY
to nothing and override
.Ar post-extract
instead.
.It Ar fetch-all , Ar fetch-list , Ar mirror-distfiles
See
.Xr mirroring-ports 7
for more efficient and flexible ways to build mirrors.
.It Ar obj
Starting with
.Ox 3.3 ,
using
.Ev WRKOBJDIR
no longer creates a symlink between the current directory and
a subdirectory of ${WRKOBJDIR}, so
.Ar obj
is no longer applicable.
.It Ar print-depends
Use
.Ar print-build-depends
and
.Ar print-run-depends
instead.
.It Ar print-depends-list
Renamed into
.Ar print-build-depends
.It Ar print-package-depends
Renamed into
.Ar print-run-depends
.El
.Sh OBSOLETE VARIABLES
.Bl -tag -width MASTER_SITES
.It Ev BIN_PACKAGES
Old user settings.
The infrastructure always trusts the repository to contain correct packages.
So, if the package name did not change and if it exists in the repository,
it will not be rebuilt without manual user action.
.It Ev CATn
List of formatted manpages, per section.
.It Ev CATPREFIX
Location for storing formatted manpages.
Derived directly from
.Ev PREFIX .
.It Ev CDROM_PACKAGES
Old user settings.
Base location where packages suitable for a CD-ROM (see
PERMIT_PACKAGE_CDROM) will be placed.
Now hardwired to
.Pa ${PACKAGE_REPOSITORY}/${MACHINE_ARCH}/cdrom .
.It Ev COMMENT
Used to be the name of the comment file for a package.
It now holds the comment itself.
Some magic has been put in to allow for a seamless transition.
.It Ev DESCR_SRC
From
.Nx .
This is DESCR.
.Ox
does not give a specific name to the generated file.
It is not recommended to try to access it directly.
.It Ev EXTRACT_AFTER_ARGS
Was used to cobble together the normal extraction command, as
${EXTRACT_CMD} ${EXTRACT_BEFORE_ARGS} ${EXTRACT_AFTER_ARGS}.
Use
.Ev EXTRACT_CASES
instead.
.It Ev EXTRACT_BEFORE_ARGS
Likewise, use
.Ev EXTRACT_CASES
instead.
.It Ev EXTRACT_CMD
Likewise, use
.Ev EXTRACT_CASES
instead.
.It Ev FETCH_BEFORE_ARGS , Ev FETCH_AFTER_ARGS
Set
.Ev FETCH_CMD
to point to a script that does any required special treatment instead.
.It Ev FETCH_DEPENDS
Used to specify dependencies that were needed to fetch files.
It is much easier to mirror locally weird distribution files.
.It Ev FTP_PACKAGES
User settings.
Base location where packages suitable for FTP (see
PERMIT_PACKAGE_FTP) will be placed.
Now hardwired to
.Pa ${PACKAGE_REPOSITORY}/${MACHINE_ARCH}/ftp .
(default: ${PKGREPOSITORYBASE}/ftp)
.It Ev GNU_CONFIGURE
Use
.Ev CONFIGURE_STYLE
instead.
.It Ev HAS_CONFIGURE
Use
.Ev CONFIGURE_STYLE
instead.
.It Ev IGNOREFILES
Set to the list of files that can't be checksummed.
All uses of it have led to postponing the correct action: talking
to the software author and getting him to provide versioned archives.
.It Ev MANn
List of unformatted manpages, per section.
.It Ev MANPREFIX
Location for storing unformatted manpages.
Derived directly from
.Ev PREFIX .
.It Ev MASTERDIR
From
.Fx .
Used to organize a collection of ports that share most files.
.Ox
uses a single port with flavors or multi-packages to produce
package variations instead.
.It Ev MASTER_SITE_SUBDIR
Contents were used to replace
.Sq %SUBDIR%
in all
.Ev MASTER_SITES
variables.
Since
.Sq %SUBDIR%
almost always occur at the end of the directory,
the simpler
.Li ${VARIABLE:=subdir/}
construct is now used instead
.Po
taken from
.Nx
.Pc .
.It Ev MD5_FILE
Use
.Ev CHECKSUM_FILE
instead.
.It Ev MIRROR_DISTFILE
Use
.Ev PERMIT_DISTFILES_FTP
and
.Ev PERMIT_DISTFILES_CDROM
to determine which files can be mirrored instead.
See
.Xr mirroring-ports 7 .
.It Ev NEED_VERSION
Used to set a requirement on a specific revision of
.Nm
needed by a port.
No longer needed as
.Nm
should always be kept up-to-date.
.It Ev NO_CONFIGURE
If ${CONFIGURE_SCRIPT} does not exist, no automatic configuration will
be done anyway.
.It Ev NO_DESCRIBE
All ports should generate a description.
.It Ev NO_EXTRACT
Set EXTRACT_ONLY= instead.
.It Ev NO_INSTALL_MANPAGES
Use
.Ev CONFIGURE_STYLE
instead.
.It Ev NO_MTREE
Starting with
.Ox 2.7 ,
the operating system installation script runs the /usr/local specification
globally, instead of embedding it in each package.
So packages no longer record an
.Xr mtree 8
specification.
Use an explicit
.Sq @exec
command if needed.
.It Ev NO_PACKAGE
All ports should generate a package, preferably before install.
.It Ev NO_PATCH
The absence of a patches directory does the same.
Use PATCHDIR and PATCH_LIST if patches need to be changed dynamically.
.It Ev NO_WRKDIR
All ports should have a working directory, as this is necessary to store
cookies and keep state.
.It Ev NO_WRKSUBDIR
The same functionality is obtained by setting WRKDIST=${WRKDIR} .
.It Ev NOCLEANDEPENDS
Use CLEANDEPENDS instead.
.It Ev NOMANCOMPRESS
.Fx
ships with compressed man pages, and uses this variable to control
that behavior.
.It Ev OBJMACHINE
Starting with
.Ox 3.3 ,
setting
.Ev WRKOBJDIR
creates the whole
.Ev WRKDIR
hierarchy under ${WRKOBJDIR}, so
.Ev OBJMACHINE
is no longer useful.
.It Ev OPSYS
The operating system.
This ports tree is only used on
.Ox .
.It Ev OPSYS_VER
Use
.Ev OSREV
instead.
.It Ev PACKAGES
Base location for packages built, renamed
.Ev PKGREPOSITORYBASE .
.It Ev PACKAGING
Used to be set during package creation, so that the port would test it
to tweak some settings at this point.
All its effects are now achieved through
.Ev MULTI_PACKAGES .
.It Ev PATCH_SITES
.Ev PATCHFILES
used to be retrieved from a separate site list.
For greater flexibility, all files are now retrieved from
.Ev MASTER_SITES ,
.Ev MASTER_SITES0 , ... ,
.Ev MASTER_SITES9 ,
using a
.Sq :0
to
.Sq :9
extension to the file name, e.g.,
.Bd -literal -offset indent
PATCHFILES=foo.diff.gz
PATCH_SITES=ftp://ftp.zoinx.org/pub/
.Ed
.Pp
becomes
.Bd -literal -offset indent
PATCHFILES=foo.diff.gz:0
MASTER_SITES0=ftp://ftp.zoinx.org/pub/
.Ed
.It Ev PKG_CMD
replaced by
.Ev PKG_CREATE .
.It Ev PKGREPOSITORY
Old user settings.
See
.Ev PACKAGE_REPOSITORY .
.It Ev PKGREPOSITORYBASE
Old user settings.
See
.Ev PACKAGE_REPOSITORY .
.It Ev PLIST_SRC
From
.Nx .
This is PLIST.
.Ox
does not give a specific name to the generated file.
It is not recommended to try to access them directly.
.It Ev PKGNAME
Used to refer to the full package name, has been superseded by
.Ev FULLPKGNAME-foo ,
for
.Ev SUBPACKAGE
-foo .
.Ev PKGNAME
now holds the package name, not taking multi-packages or flavors
into account.
Most ports are not concerned by this change.
.It Ev PLIST_SUBST
From
.Nx
and
.Fx .
Use SUBST_VARS instead.
.Ox
does not allow general substitutions of the form VAR=value, but uses
only a list of variables instead.
Most package files gets transformed, instead of only the packing list.
.It Ev RESTRICTED
Port has cryptographic issues.
.Ox
focuses on
.Ev PERMIT_PACKAGE_{FTP,CDROM}
instead.
.It Ev SED_PLIST
Old pipeline for creating packing-lists at the ports level.
Necessary functionality has been integrated directly into
.Xr pkg_create 1 .
.It Ev SCRIPTDIR
Old location for scripts related to the current port.
There is no reason for the semantic distinction, use
.Ev FILESDIR
for those.
.It Ev SCRIPTS_ENV
Used to contain the environment for invoking various scripts.
.Ev CONFIGURE_ENV
and
.Ev MAKE_ENV
are enough.
.It Ev USE_AUTOCONF
Use
.Ev CONFIGURE_STYLE
instead.
.It Ev USE_BZIP2
The framework will automatically detect the presence of
.Pa .tar.bz2
files to extract.
See also
.Ev BZIP2 , EXTRACT_CASES ,
and
.Ev EXTRACT_SUFX .
.It Ev USE_IMAKE
Use
.Ev CONFIGURE_STYLE
instead.
.It Ev USE_X11
Presence of ${X11BASE} is now enforced by default for building ports.
.It Ev USE_ZIP
The framework will automatically detect the presence of
.Pa .zip
files to extract.
See also
.Ev ZIP , EXTRACT_CASES ,
and
.Ev EXTRACT_SUFX .
.It Ev VARNAME
Use make show=name instead of make show VARNAME=name.
.It Ev WRKPKG
Directory used to build package information from the templates under
.Pa ${PKGDIR} .
This information is now built on the fly by
.Xr pkg_create 1 .
.El
.Sh OBSOLETE FILES
.Bl -tag -width files/md5
.It Pa ${FILESDIR}/md5
Renamed to
.Pa distinfo
to match other BSD, and save directories.
.It Pa ${SCRIPTDIR}/{pre,do,post}-*
Identical functionality can be obtained through a {pre,do,post}-* target,
invoking the script manually if necessary.
.It Pa ${SCRIPTDIR}/configure
No longer invoked automatically.
Just inline the instructions in
.Ar do-configure
in the Makefile, or put the script in ${FILESDIR} and
invoke it.
.It Pa ${PKGDIR}/COMMENT
Use COMMENT variable instead.
.It Pa ${PKGDIR}/DEINSTALL*
Use @unexec annotations in the packing-list instead.
.It Pa ${PKGDIR}/INSTALL*
Use @exec annotations in the packing-list instead.
.It Pa ${PKGDIR}/PLIST.noshared
Use PFRAG.shared or PFRAG.no-shared instead.
PLIST.noshared was too easy to forget when updating ports.
.It Pa ${PKGDIR}/PLIST.sed
Use PLIST directly.
Until revision 1.295,
.Nm
did not substitute variables in the packing list unless this special form
was used.
.It Pa ${PKGDIR}/REQ*
Old requirement script.
Was mostly unused anyway.
.It Pa /usr/share/mk/bsd.port.mk
Original location of
.Nm bsd.port.mk .
The current file lives under
.Pa ${PORTSDIR}/infrastructure/mk/bsd.port.mk ,
whereas
.Pa /usr/share/mk/bsd.port.mk
is just a stub.
.It Pa {scripts,files,patches}.${OPSYS}
The
.Ox
ports tree focuses on robustness, not on being portable to other operating
systems.
In any case, portability should not need to depend on operating
system dependent patches.
.It Pa /usr/local/etc
Used by
.Fx
to marshall system configuration files.
All
.Ox
system configuration files are located in
.Pa /etc ,
or in a subdirectory of
.Pa /etc .
.El
.Sh THE FAKE FRAMEWORK
The
.Ar fake
target is used to install the port in a private directory first, ready for
packaging by the
.Ar package
target, so that the real installation will use the package.
.Pp
Essentially,
.Ar fake
invokes a real
.Ar install
process after tweaking a few variables.
.Pp
.Ar fake
first creates a skeleton tree under ${WRKINST}, using the
.Xr mtree 8
specification
.Pa ${PORTSDIR}/infrastructure/db/fake.mtree .
.Pp
A
.Ar pre-fake
target may be used to complete that skeleton tree.
For instance, a few ports may need supplementary stuff to be present (as
it would be installed if the ports' dependencies were present).
.Pp
If {pre,do,post}-install overrides are present, they are used with some
important changes: PREFIX is set to ${WRKINST}${PREFIX}, ${DESTDIRNAME}
is set to ${WRKINST}, and TRUEPREFIX is set to ${PREFIX}.
Essentially, old install targets work transparently, except for a need to
change PREFIX to TRUEPREFIX for symbolic links and similar path lookups.
Specific traditional post install work can be simply removed, as it will
be taken care of by the package itself (for instance, ldconfig, or
texinfo's install-info).
.Pp
If no do-install override is present, the port is installed using
.Bd -literal -offset 2n
env -i ${MAKE_ENV}
PREFIX=${WRKINST}${PREFIX} ${DESTDIRNAME}=${WRKINST} TRUEPREFIX=${PREFIX}
${MAKE_PROGRAM} ${ALL_FAKE_FLAGS} -f ${MAKE_FILE} ${FAKE_TARGET}
.Ed
.Pp
Note that this does set both PREFIX and ${DESTDIRNAME}.
If a port's Makefile both heeds ${DESTDIRNAME},
and references PREFIX explicitly,
FAKE_FLAGS may rectify the problem by setting PREFIX=${PREFIX}
(which will do the right thing, since ${PREFIX} is a
.Xr make 1
construct which will not be seen by the shell).
.Pp
${FAKE_FLAGS} is used to set variables on
.Xr make 1
command line, which will override the port Makefile contents.
Thus, a port that mentions DESTDIR= does not need any patch to work with fake.
.Pp
Files such as
.Pa ${PKGDIR}/README*
or
.Pa ${PKGDIR}/*.rc
get copied to
.Pa ${WRKINST}
at the end of
.Ar fake
(see the FILES section above for details).
.Sh FLAVORS AND MULTI_PACKAGES
Starting with
.Ox 2.7 ,
each port can generate distinct packages through two orthogonal mechanisms:
FLAVORS and MULTI_PACKAGES.
.Pp
The current MULTI_PACKAGES mechanism was introduced after
.Ox 4.0 .
.Pp
If a port can be compiled with several options, these options
should be turned into FLAVORS.
The port maintainer will set FLAVORS to be the list of possible options in
the Makefile.
When building the port, the package builder will set
.Li "FLAVOR='option1 option2...'"
to build a specific flavor of the port.
The Makefile should test the value of FLAVOR as follows:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
FLAVOR?=
\&.if ${FLAVOR:L:Moption1}
# what to do if option1
\&.endif
\&.if ${FLAVOR:L:Moption2}
# what to do if option2
\&.endif
.Ed
.Pp
.Pa bsd.port.mk
takes care of a few details, such as generating a distinct work directory for
each flavor, or creating a FULLPKGNAME by adding a dash separated list of
flavors to the base package name.
The order in which FLAVOR is specified does not matter: this dash separated
list will be reordered to match the ordering of FLAVORS.
.Pp
It is an error to specify an option in FLAVOR that does not appear in FLAVORS,
to prevent misspellings.
.Pp
In recursive package building, flavors can be specified as a comma
separated list after the package directory, e.g., SUBDIR+=vim,no_x11.
.Pp
Finally, package information will use templates with the canonical package
extension if they are available: if FLAVOR='option1 option2' and both
COMMENT and COMMENT-option1-option2 are available, COMMENT-option1-option2 will
be used.
.Pp
If one build of a port can generate several distinct packages, set
MULTI_PACKAGES accordingly.
Each extension of a MULTI_PACKAGES name should start with a dash, so that
they cannot be confused with FLAVORS.
In dependency checking and recursive builds, a subpackage can be
specified after a comma, e.g., SUBDIR+=quake,-server.
MULTI_PACKAGES only affects the actual package building step (and the
describe step, since a MULTI_PACKAGES port will produce several
descriptions).
.Pp
If MULTI_PACKAGES is set, the packaging stage happens once for every
subpackage, using subpackage-specific variables.
For instance, if MULTI_PACKAGES=-main -lib -server,
.Ev PKG_ARCH-main ,
.Ev PKG_ARCH-lib
and
.Ev PKG_ARCH-server
will be used for the subpackages respectively called
.Ev FULLPKGNAME-main ,
.Ev FULLPKGNAME-lib
and
.Ev FULLPKGNAME-server .
.Pp
All package information is also derived from
templates with SUBPACKAGE appended.
In the preceding example, the packing-list template for FULLPKGNAME-lib
must be in PLIST-lib.
.Pp
The following variables are subpackage dependent:
.Ev COMMENT ,
.Ev PKG_ARCH ,
.Ev PERMIT_PACKAGE_FTP ,
.Ev PERMIT_PACKAGE_CDROM ,
.Ev PKGNAME ,
.Ev FULLPKGNAME ,
.Ev REVISION ,
.Ev EPOCH ,
.Ev FULLPKGPATH ,
.Ev RUN_DEPENDS ,
.Ev WANTLIB ,
.Ev LIB_DEPENDS ,
.Ev IGNORE ,
.Ev ONLY_FOR_ARCHS ,
.Ev NOT_FOR_ARCHS ,
.Ev PREFIX ,
.Ev CATEGORIES ,
.Ev MESSAGE ,
.Ev UNMESSAGE ,
.Ev DESCR ,
.Ev PLIST ,
.Ev PKGSPEC .
.Pp
The usual non-MULTI_PACKAGES variables are simply used as default values
for all subpackages.
So, if you set
.Li "PKG_ARCH=*"
.Li "PKG_ARCH-main=i386"
then
.Ev PKG_ARCH-lib
and
.Ev PKG_ARCH-server
will both be
.Sq * .
.Pp
.Ev WANTLIB
and
.Ev LIB_DEPENDS
are special.
At the beginning of build,
all build dependencies will be checked,
which includes both
.Ev LIB_DEPENDS ,
.Ev WANTLIB
and the subpackage-specific version of these.
As an exception, any
.Ev LIB_DEPENDS-sub
that references the current port will be ignored as a build dependency,
in order to avoid recursion.
.Pp
.Ev FULLPKGPATH
and
.Ev FULLPKGNAME
are special as well.
You must set
.Ev PKGNAME-sub
or
.Ev FULLPKGNAME-sub
for each subpackage, and
.Ev FULLPKGPATH-sub
is set automatically to the right value.
In very rare cases, one can override
.Ev FULLPKGPATH-sub
(for instance, if one specific subpackage is not affected by option
settings that affect other subpackages, e.g., for include files packs).
.Pp
In terms of implementation, quite a few targets will have a subpackage
specific subtarget:
invoking
.Ar package
is the same as invoking
.Ar subpackage
for all subpackages,
invoking
.Ar install-all
is the same as invoking
.Ar install
for all subpackages,
and invoking
.Ar update
is the same as invoking
subupdate
for all subpackages.
.Pp
.Ev ONLY_FOR_ARCHS
and
.Ev NOT_FOR_ARCHS
interact with
.Ev MULTI_PACKAGES
and
.Ev IGNORE .
The infrastructure will automatically filter subpackages
that are not suitable for the current architecture.
Thus,
.Ev MULTI_PACKAGES
should always list all subpackages,
even things not buildable on the current architecture,
for indexing purposes.
Note that
.Xr dpb 1
will break if all subpackages are not properly listed.
.Sh THE GENERATION OF PACKAGE INFORMATION
Starting after
.Ox 4.1
all package information is processed directly by
.Xr pkg_create 1
from templates in ${PKG_DIR}.
.Pp
.Bl -bullet -compact
.It
If not overridden by the user, determine which set of templates to use,
depending on the current SUBPACKAGE and FLAVOR information.
Set ${PLIST${SUBPACKAGE}}, ${DESCR${SUBPACKAGE}}, ${COMMENT${SUBPACKAGE}}, ${MESSAGE${SUBPACKAGE}}, ${UNMESSAGE${SUBPACKAGE}} accordingly.
.It
Detect the existence of ${PKGDIR}/{REQ,INSTALL,DEINSTALL}${SUBPACKAGE}.
These are now deprecated.
Use @exec and @unexec annotations instead.
.It
Generate the actual DESCR, and if needed, MESSAGE, UNMESSAGE,
from the templates in ${DESCR}, ${MESSAGE}, ${UNMESSAGE}, by
substituting the variables in ${SUBST_VARS}, and by substituting
${FLAVORS} with the canonical flavor extension for this port,
e.g., if FLAVORS=no_map gfx qt2, if FLAVOR=gfx no_map, this is
.Sq -no_map-gfx .
.It
Generate the actual PLIST from the template ${PLIST},
by inserting shared/no-shared fragments, merging other fragments,
and applying the same variable substitutions as other package information.
.El
.Pp
Note that ${COMMENT} is currently not substituted, to speed up
.Ar describe
generation.
.Pp
To avoid substitution, variables can be escaped as follows:
.Li "$\e{PREFIX}"
.Pp
Constructs such as the line
.Li "%%SHARED%%"
or
.Li "!%%SHARED%%"
in the packing-list template trigger the inclusion of the
.Pa ${PKGDIR}/PFRAG.shared${SUBPACKAGE}
or
.Pa ${PKGDIR}/PFRAG.no-shared${SUBPACKAGE} .
.Pp
Similarly, if FLAVORS lists flav1, then the line
.Li "%%flav1%%"
(resp.
.Li "!%%flav1%%" )
will trigger the inclusion of
.Pa ${PKGDIR}/PFRAG.flav1${SUBPACKAGE}
(resp.
.Pa ${PKGDIR}/PFRAG.no-flav1${SUBPACKAGE} )
in the packing-list.
Other fragments can be defined by simply adding
.Li "-Dfrag=1"
or
.Li "-Dfrag=0"
to
.Ev PKG_ARGS
.Pp
.Xr pkg_add 1
now calls
.Xr ldconfig 8
directly, provided dynamic libraries have been annotated with
.Li "@lib libthingy.so.5.0" .
Adding new directories to the dynamic loader cache has been
deprecated.
It is often better to let libraries be visible as a link
under ${LOCALBASE}.
Having a separate directory is enough to trick
.Xr ld 1
into grabbing the right version.
Libraries used only for
.Xr dlopen 3
do not need to be visible.
Some programs will prefer to use rpath to find their own libraries.
.Pp
The special
.Ar update-plist
target does a fairly good job of automatically generating PLIST and
PFRAG.shared fragments.
.Pp
If
.Ev PLIST_DB
points to a directory, all packing-lists from packages generated by
.Xr pkg_create 1
during the
.Ar package
stage are saved in that location by a script:
.Pa ${PORTSDIR}/infrastructure/bin/register-plist .
This script strips some irrelevant information and normalizes the
packing-list somehow, and compares it to existing information, looking
for relevant changes.
Since a package name must always be changed when the packing-list changes,
any attempt to replace a packing-list of a given name with a different
packing-list will be flagged as an error.
.Pp
In MULTI_PACKAGES mode, there must be separate COMMENT, DESCR, and PLIST
templates for each SUBPACKAGE (and optional distinct MESSAGE, UNMESSAGE
files in a similar way).
This contrasts with the FLAVORS
situation, where all these files will automatically default to the
non-flavor version if there is no flavor-specific file around.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr ftp 1 ,
.Xr pkg_add 1 ,
.Xr pkg_create 1 ,
.Xr OpenBSD::Intro 3p ,
.Xr port-modules 5 ,
.Xr library-specs 7 ,
.Xr mirroring-ports 7 ,
.Xr packages-specs 7 ,
.Xr ports 7
.Sh HISTORY
The ports mechanism originally came from
.Fx .
A lot of additions were taken from
.Nx
over the seminal years.
.Pp
Since 1998, the framework has been systematically cleaned-up and reorganized
to remove bugs.
New features have been carefully introduced, trying hard to avoid
inconsistencies.
.Pp
FLAVORS, MULTI_PACKAGES and FAKE are
.Ox
improvements.
Most recent additions do not come from another BSD.
.\" Voluntarily undocumented:
.\" AUTOCONF_ENV: probably not needed anyway, should be internal.
.Sh BUGS AND LIMITATIONS
.Ev LOCALBASE ,
.Ev X11BASE ,
.Ev SYSCONFDIR
and
.Ev PREFIX
are not heeded consistently.
Most of the ports tree will probably fall
apart if one tries to build/use stuff elsewhere.
