.\"	$OpenBSD: forward.5,v 1.9 2010/10/18 15:01:40 jmc Exp $
.\"
.\"	Copyright (c) 2001 Marco S. Hyman
.\"
.\"	Permission to copy all or part of this material with or without
.\"	modification for any purpose is granted provided that the above
.\"	copyright notice and this paragraph are duplicated in all copies.
.\"
.\"	THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR
.\"	IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED
.\"	WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: October 18 2010 $
.Dt FORWARD 5
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm forward
.Nd e-mail forwarding information file
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Users may put a file named
.Pa .forward
in their home directory.
If this file exists,
.Xr sendmail 8
(and sendmail-like mailers) will redirect mail for the user to the list of
addresses found in the
.Pa .forward
file.
.Pp
A
.Pa .forward
file contains one or more lines where each line is an e-mail address
or the name of a private incoming mailer where incoming mail will be
forwarded.
Multiple entries may be specified on one line, comma separated.
Additionally, a copy of all mail may be retained
on the local machine using a
.Dq \euser
entry.
.Pp
.Pa .forward
files must not be group or world writable.
The user's home directory should not be group writable.
The
.Pa .forward
file must be owned by and readable by the indicated user.
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width $HOME/.forward -compact
.It Pa $HOME/.forward
e-mail forwarding information
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bd -literal -offset indent
# lines with # in the first column are ignored
# empty lines are ignored
# #@# with whitespace on both sides may be used to start a comment

foo@bar.baz.com, \euser			#@# is a comment anywhere
"| /usr/local/libexec/slocal -user foo"
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr aliases 5 ,
.Xr sendmail 8
.Pp
.Pa http://www.sendmail.org/
