.\"	$OpenBSD: myname.5,v 1.7 2014/12/31 13:56:37 lum Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2003 Jason McIntyre <jmc@openbsd.org>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: December 31 2014 $
.Dt MYNAME 5
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm myname , mygate
.Nd default hostname and gateway
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm /etc/myname
.Nm /etc/mygate
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm myname
and
.Nm mygate
files are read by
.Xr netstart 8
at system startup time.
.Pp
.Pa /etc/myname
contains the symbolic name of the host machine.
The file should contain a single line specifying the
fully qualified domain name
.Pq FQDN
of the system
.Pq e.g. host.example.com .
The name must be resolvable, either by matching a hostname specified in
.Pa /etc/hosts
(see
.Xr hosts 5 )
or through DNS
(see
.Xr resolv.conf 5 ) .
The hostname is set via the
.Xr hostname 1
utility at boot time.
See
.Xr hostname 7
for a description of hostname resolution.
.Pp
.Pa /etc/mygate ,
if it exists,
contains the address of the gateway host.
The gateway is added to the routing tables by the
.Xr route 8
utility.
If
.Pa /etc/mygate
does not exist, no default gateway is added to the routing tables.
The file may contain gateway addresses for both IPv4 and IPv6 networks:
in dotted quad notation for v4
.Pq e.g. 192.0.2.1
or in colon notation for v6
.Pq e.g. 2001:db8::1 .
Each address must be specified on a separate line.
If more than one address of a specific family is found,
only the first is used \- all other addresses of that family are ignored.
.Pp
.Pa /etc/mygate
is processed after all interfaces have been configured.
If any
.Xr hostname.if 5
files contain
.Dq dhcp
directives,
IPv4 entries in
.Pa /etc/mygate
will be ignored.
If they contain
.Dq rtsol
directives,
IPv6 entries will be ignored.
.Pp
Empty lines and lines beginning with
.Sq #
in either file are ignored.
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width "/etc/myname" -compact
.It Pa /etc/myname
Default hostname.
.It Pa /etc/mygate
Default gateway address(es).
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr hostname 1 ,
.Xr hostname.if 5 ,
.Xr hosts 5 ,
.Xr resolv.conf 5 ,
.Xr hostname 7 ,
.Xr netstart 8 ,
.Xr route 8
.Sh HISTORY
This manual page first appeared in
.Ox 3.4 .
