.\"	$OpenBSD: pf.nat.5,v 1.4 2001/06/26 13:00:14 ian Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001 Ian Darwin.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. The name of the author may not be used to endorse or promote products
.\"    derived from this software without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd June 26, 2001
.Dt PF.NAT 5
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm nat.rules
.Nd network address translation configuration file for packet filtering
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The rules file for network address translation specify what addresses
are to be mapped and which are to be redirected.
The two rule types that can be specified are 
.Li rdr 
and
.Li nat .
.Pp
Rules are processed in the order written.
Each rule must be on a line by itself.
Comments beginning with the character `#', and null lines, are
completely ignored.
The general syntax of rules is
.Bd -literal
rdr|nat ifname ipspec '->' ipspec
.Ed
.Pp
.Li ifname
is a network name such as fxp4, ne0, ep1.
.Li ipspec
is a host number or a network number with netmask bits after a slash,
and optionally the word 'port' and a port number.
On the right hand side of a rule, an ipspec must refer to a single
IP address; it can also be specified as an
interface name, whose IP address will then be used.
An
.Li ipspec
can be preceded with the character `!' to negate it.
.Pp
An
.Li rdr 
rule specifies an incoming connection to be redirected
to another host and optionally a different port.
.Pp
.A
.Li nat
rule specifies that IP addresses are to be changed as the 
packet traverses the given interface. This technique of network
address translation (NAT, also called ``IP masquerading'' on Linux)
allows a single IP address to support a large range of machines on
an inside network.
Although in theory any IP address can be used on the inside,
it is recommended that one of the network numbers assigned
for this purpose in RFC 1918. These netblocks are:
.Bd -literal
10.0.0.0    - 10.255.255.255.255 (all of net 10, i.e., 10/8)
172.16.0.0  - 172.31.255.255 (i.e, 172.16/12)
192.168.0.0 - 192.168.255.255 (i.e., 192.168/16)
.Ed
.Sh EXAMPLES
This example maps incoming requests on port 80 to port 8080, on
which Apache Tomcat is running (I don't run Tomcat as root, therefore it
doesn't have permission to bind to port 80).
.Bd -literal
# map tomcat on 8080 to appear to be on 80
rdr ne3 0.0.0.0/0 port 80 -> 127.0.0.1 port 8080
.Ed
.Pp
In the example below, fxp1 is the outside interface; the machine sits between a
fake internal 144.19.74.* network, and a routable external IP of 204.92.77.100:
.Bd -literal
nat fxp1 144.19.74/24 -> 204.92.77.100
.Ed
.Pp
This longer example uses both a NAT and a redirection. Interface
kue0 is the outside interface, and its external address is 157.161.48.183.
.Bd -literal
# --------------------------------------------------------------------
# NAT
# --------------------------------------------------------------------

# translate outgoing packets' source addresses (any protocol)
# in my case, any address but the gateway's external address is mapped
#
nat kue0 ! 157.161.48.183 -> 157.161.48.183

# --------------------------------------------------------------------
# RDR
# --------------------------------------------------------------------

# translate incoming packets' destination addresses
# as an example, redirect a TCP and UDP port to an internal machine
#
rdr kue0 157.161.48.183/32 port 8080 -> 10.1.2.151 port 22 proto tcp
rdr kue0 157.161.48.183/32 port 8080 -> 10.1.2.151 port 53 proto udp
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr pfctl 8
