.\"	$OpenBSD: port-modules.5,v 1.233 2018/09/03 22:12:37 bcallah Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008 Marc Espie
.\"
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE DEVELOPERS ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE DEVELOPERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: September 3 2018 $
.Dt PORT-MODULES 5
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm port-modules
.Nd documentation and conventions used in port modules
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Ox
Ports framework is based on a gigantic makefile named
.Xr bsd.port.mk 5 .
.Pp
In order to curb unwieldy growth, parts of the framework
that are not always needed have been set apart in optional
files called
.Nm port modules ,
which are retrieved as needed through the
.Ev MODULES
variable of
.Xr bsd.port.mk 5 .
.Pp
Some of these modules correspond to basic mechanisms which are not
always needed, such as GNU autoconf, or perl5.
.Pp
For convenience, setting
.Ev CONFIGURE_STYLE
in a port's main Makefile is enough to get perl5 or autoconf support, but
.Ar gnu ,
.Ar imake
and
.Ar perl5
are actually modules, and there is some glue in
.Xr bsd.port.mk 5
that magically adds the required module in that case.
This doesn't work when parsing modules.
For instance, if you set
.Li CONFIGURE_STYLE=gnu
in a module, you also need to
.Li MODULES += gnu .
.Pp
Other modules correspond to shortcuts for using some other ports as
dependencies without needing to hardcode too much, such as
the qt ports.
.Sh THE MODULES LOOK-UP MECHANISM
The variable
.Ev MODULES
should contain a list of module names.
Some core modules are a single word, all other modules should be
${PKGPATH}.
If the module is
.Pa some/dir/portname ,
the ports framework will look for a file named
.Pa ${PORTSDIR}/some/dir/portname/portname.port.mk
and include it.
.Pp
Most modules should conform to this syntax.
The historic practice of having a redirection file directly under
.Pa ${PORTSDIR}/infrastructure/mk
is deprecated for new modules.
.Pp
Modules may refer to each other.
The modules mechanism has specific recursion handling such that
adding
.Li MODULES += foo/bar
to a module will work as expected.
.Sh NAMING CONVENTIONS
Since there is no actual scope in makefiles, everything defined within
a module will be global to the ports framework, and thus may interfere
with other ports.
.Pp
As far as possible, all variables and targets belonging to a module named
.Pa some/dir/foo
should be named
.Ev MODFOO_*
and
.Ar modfoo_* .
.Pp
Following the same conventions as
.Xr bsd.port.mk 5 ,
internal variables and targets not intended for user consumption should be
named
.Ev _MODFOO_*
and
.Ar _modfoo_* .
.Pp
For instance, if a module wants some value to be available for the rest
of the world, it should define
.Ev MODFOO_VARNAME ,
with a name matching the basic infrastructure as far as possible.
That is, a port that defines specific dependencies will usually
define
.Ev MODFOO_WANTLIB ,
.Ev MODFOO_LIB_DEPENDS ,
and
.Ev MODFOO_RUN_DEPENDS ,
as appropriate.
.Pp
As an exception to the naming mechanism, some ports have several distinct
versions in the ports tree, say
.Pa x11/qt3
and
.Pa x11/qt4 .
Instead of using the namespace
.Ev MODQT3* ,
variables will usually drop the version suffix and be simply called
.Ev MODQT_*
so that a port using the module can be switched from version to version
without needing to change everything.
.Pp
It is highly desirable to define names in both namespaces for such ports,
for example to define both
.Ev MODQT3_LIB_DEPENDS
and
.Ev MODQT_LIB_DEPENDS .
Normal client ports will use
.Ev MODQT_LIB_DEPENDS ,
but a port may exceptionally import both modules with
.Li MODULES += x11/qt3 x11/qt4
and differentiate between qt3 and qt4 needs with
.Ev MODQT3_LIB_DEPENDS
and
.Ev MODQT4_LIB_DEPENDS .
See
.Pa print/poppler
for an example.
.Sh OVERRIDING TARGET BEHAVIOR
The main framework contains several hooks that allow ports to override
normal behavior.
This evolved as an ad-hoc framework, where only hooks that turned out
to be needed were added.
If several modules define the same hook, hook behaviors will be
invoked in sequence.
.Bl -tag -width do-configure
.It Cm extract
There is a
.Cm post-extract
hook that can be activated by defining
.Ev MODFOO_post-extract .
It will be run right after
.Cm post-extract .
.It Cm patch
There is a
.Cm post-patch
hook that can be activated by defining
.Ev MODFOO_post-patch .
It will be run right after
.Cm post-patch
and before
.Ev REORDER_DEPENDENCIES
touches things.
.It Cm configure
There is a
.Cm pre-configure
hook that can be activated by defining
.Ev MODFOO_pre-configure .
It will be run right after
.Cm pre-configure .
The normal
.Cm do-configure
behavior is to invoke all
.Ev MODFOO_configure
contents that are defined in
.Ev CONFIGURE_STYLE .
By default,
.Cm configure
will do nothing.
.Pp
Some
.Ev CONFIGURE_STYLE
values, namely perl, gnu, imake, automake, autoconf, and autoupdate
will automatically import the correct module.
User-defined modules must both add to
.Ev CONFIGURE_STYLE
and import the correct module to override behavior.
.Pp
Contrary to other hooks, module behavior is not invoked in
addition to
.Cm do-configure ,
but as the normal configure process.
If
.Cm do-configure
is overridden, normal hook processing will not happen.
.It Cm fake
There is a
.Cm pre-fake
hook that can be activated by defining
.Ev MODFOO_pre-fake .
This will be invoked right after
.Xr mtree 8 ,
and before the normal
.Cm pre-fake
behavior.
.Pp
This can occasionally be used for ports that require some specific
fake installation setup that will be provided by runtime dependencies.
.It Cm install
There is a
.Cm post-install
hook that can be activated by defining
.Ev MODFOO_post-install .
This will be invoked at the end of
.Cm install ,
right after the normal
.Cm post-install
behavior.
.El
.Pp
Some targets, such as
.Cm do-build
or
.Cm do-install ,
can't be overridden simply.
A module that, for instance, requires specific
.Cm do-build
behavior should do so in two steps:
.Bl -bullet
.It
Define a variable named
.Ev MODFOO_BUILD_TARGET
that contains the commands necessary for
.Cm do-build :
.Bd -literal -offset indent
MODFOO_BUILD_TARGET = cmd1; cmd2
.Ed
.It
Override
.Cm do-build
only if it's not already defined by the port proper:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
\&.if !target(do-build)
do-build:
	@${MODFOO_BUILD_TARGET}
\&.endif
.Ed
.El
That way, if several modules require specific actions for those targets,
the end user can choose the appropriate order in which to run the actions:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
do-build:
	@${MODBAR_BUILD_TARGET}
	@${MODFOO_BUILD_TARGET}
	...
.Ed
.Sh OVERRIDING VARIABLE BEHAVIOR
Some variables can be overridden by modules.
Be very cautious, as this can make the module difficult to use,
or interact badly with other modules.
As a rule, always provide the override as:
.Pp
.Dl VARIABLE ?= value
.Pp
and provide a module-specific variable with the same value:
.Pp
.Dl MODFOO_VARIABLE = value .
.Pp
The following variables can be overridden in a relatively safe fashion:
.Ev ALL_TARGET ,
.Ev CONFIGURE_SCRIPT ,
.Ev DESTDIRNAME ,
.Ev DIST_SUBDIR ,
.Ev DISTNAME ,
.Ev DISTFILES ,
.Ev EXTRACT_SUFX ,
.Ev FAKE_FLAGS ,
.Ev FETCH_MANUALLY ,
.Ev HOMEPAGE ,
.Ev IGNORE ,
.Ev IS_INTERACTIVE ,
.Ev LIBTOOL_FLAGS ,
.Ev MAKE_FILE ,
.Ev MASTER_SITES ,
.Ev MULTI_PACKAGES ,
.Ev NO_BUILD ,
.Ev NO_TEST ,
.Ev PATCH_LIST ,
.Ev PKG_ARCH ,
.Ev PKGNAME* ,
.Ev PREFIX ,
.Ev TEST_TARGET ,
.Ev TEST_IS_INTERACTIVE ,
.Ev REORDER_DEPENDENCIES ,
.Ev SEPARATE_BUILD ,
.Ev USE_GMAKE ,
.Ev USE_LIBTOOL .
.Pp
The following variables can be added to in a relatively safe fashion:
.Ev BUILD_DEPENDS ,
.Ev CATEGORIES ,
.Ev CONFIGURE_ARGS ,
.Ev CONFIGURE_ENV ,
.Ev ERRORS ,
.Ev FAKE_FLAGS ,
.Ev FLAVOR ,
.Ev FLAVORS ,
.Ev INSTALL_TARGET ,
.Ev LIB_DEPENDS ,
.Ev MAKE_ENV ,
.Ev MAKE_FLAGS ,
.Ev PKG_ARGS ,
.Ev PSEUDO_FLAVORS ,
.Ev TEST_DEPENDS ,
.Ev REORDER_DEPENDENCIES ,
.Ev RUN_DEPENDS ,
.Ev SUBST_VARS ,
.Ev WANTLIB .
.Sh SPECIFIC MODULE INTERACTIONS
Some modules correspond to extra ports that will be used mostly as
.Ev BUILD_DEPENDS
or
.Ev RUN_DEPENDS .
Such modules can safely append values directly to the
.Ev BUILD_DEPENDS ,
.Ev RUN_DEPENDS ,
.Ev LIB_DEPENDS ,
and
.Ev WANTLIB
variables, as long as they also define module-specific variables for
all runtime dependencies.
.Pp
Simple client ports will use the module directly, and thus inherit extra
build and runtime dependencies.
.Pp
More sophisticated ports can use
.Ev MULTI_PACKAGES
to select specific behavior: build-time dependencies will always be
needed.
Runtime dependencies will be selected on a subpackage basis,
since runtime dependencies such as
.Ev LIB_DEPENDS-sub
do not inherit the default
.Ev LIB_DEPENDS
value.
The client port's author must only bear in mind that external modules
may add values to the default
.Ev WANTLIB ,
.Ev LIB_DEPENDS ,
and
.Ev RUN_DEPENDS ,
and thus that it is not safe to inherit from it blindly.
.Pp
Modules are imported during
.Pp
.Dl .include <bsd.port.mk>
.Pp
Thus they can be affected by user choices such as setting a variable
to Yes or No.
Modules may make decisions based on documented
.Ev MODFOO_BEHAVIOR
values.
.Pp
When modules are processed, only a few
.Xr bsd.port.mk 5
variables are already defined.
Modules may depend upon the following variables already having a sane
value:
.Ev DISTDIR ,
.Ev LOCALBASE ,
.Ev NO_DEPENDS ,
.Ev PKGPATH ,
.Ev PORTSDIR ,
.Ev X11BASE
and all arch-dependent constants from
.Xr bsd.port.arch.mk 5 ,
such as
.Ev PROPERTIES
or
.Ev LP64_ARCHS .
Note that this is only relevant for tests.
It is perfectly okay to define variables or targets that depend on the
basic ports framework without having to care whether that variable is
already defined, since
.Xr make 1
performs lazy evaluation.
.Sh CORE MODULES DOCUMENTATION
The following modules are available.
.Bl -tag -width do-configure
.It apache-module
.It cpan
For perl ports coming from CPAN.
Wrapper around the normal perl module that fetches the file from
the correct location depending on
.Ev DISTNAME ,
and sets a default
.Ev PKGNAME .
Also affects
.Ev TEST_DEPENDS ,
.Ev CONFIGURE_STYLE ,
.Ev PKG_ARCH ,
and
.Ev CATEGORIES .
.Pp
Some CPAN modules are only indexed by author, set
.Li CPAN_AUTHOR=ID
to locate the right directory.
.Pp
If no
.Ev HOMEPAGE
is defined, it will default to
.Pa http://search.cpan.org/dist/${DISTNAME:C/-[^-]*$//}/
.Pp
User settings: set
.Ev CPAN_REPORT
to Yes,
.Ev CPAN_REPORT_DB
to a valid directory,
and
.Ev CPAN_REPORT_FROM
to a valid email address to automate the reporting
of regression tests to CPAN.
.Pp
If
.Ev MODCPAN_EXAMPLES
is set, the following variables will be set.
.Ev MODCPAN_EXAMPLES_DIST
will hold the default directory in the distfile with
example scripts.
.Ev MODCPAN_EXAMPLES_DIR
will be set to the standard installation directory for
examples.
Sets the
.Cm post-install
target if none has been defined to install the examples,
otherwise
.Ev MODCPAN_POST_INSTALL
should be used as such:
.Bd -literal
post-install:
	...
	${MODCPAN_POST_INSTALL}
.Ed
.It databases/mariadb
Adds small framework for testing ports that require running MariaDB.
Defines
.Ev MODMARIADB_TEST_TARGET
which consists actual commands to run in
.Cm do-test
target.
If this target isn't defined, it will be added automatically.
.Pp
The actual test command to be run could be specified in the
.Ev MODMARIADB_TEST_CMD .
Default is similar to what
.Xr bsd.port.mk 5
runs itself.
.Pp
The MariaDB server being started will listen on UNIX domain socket
only, minimizing impact on running system.
The path to socket is recorded in
.Ev MODMARIADB_TEST_SOCKET .
Any local user will be able to connect without password.
.Pp
If the
.Ev MODMARIADB_TEST_DBNAME
variable is set, the database with such name will be set up before
running actual test command.
Otherwise (default), the test is responsible to call
.Xr mysqladmin 1
itself, if needed.
.Pp
The
.Pa databases/mariadb,-server
will get added to
.Ev TEST_DEPENDS ,
but not to any other
.Ev *_DEPENDS .
The
.Ev MODMARIADB_CLIENT_ARGS
and
.Ev MODMARIADB_ADMIN_ARGS
variables hold arguments for
.Xr mysql 1
and
.Xr mysqladmin 1 ,
respectively; those argument lists could be used in test scripts
for connecting to test server, if they aren't satisfied by environment.
.It databases/postgresql
Adds small framework for testing ports that require running Postgres.
Defines
.Ev MODPOSTGRESQL_TEST_TARGET
which consists actual commands to run in
.Cm do-test
target.
If this target isn't defined, it will be added automatically.
.Pp
The actual test command to be run could be specified in the
.Ev MODPOSTGRESQL_TEST_CMD .
Default is similar to what
.Xr bsd.port.mk 5
runs itself.
.Pp
The Postgres server being started will listen on UNIX domain socket
only, minimizing impact on running system.
The path to directory where socket will be created is set by
.Ev MODPOSTGRESQL_TEST_PGHOST ,
defaulting to
.Pa ${WRKDIR} .
Any local user will be able to connect without password.
.Pp
If the
.Ev MODPOSTGRESQL_TEST_DBNAME
variable is set, the database with such name will be set up before
running actual test command.
Otherwise (default), the test is responsible to call
.Xr initdb 1
itself.
.Pp
The
.Pa databases/postgresql,-server
will get added to
.Ev TEST_DEPENDS ,
but not to any other
.Ev *_DEPENDS .
.It devel/cmake
Adds
.Pa devel/cmake
to
.Ev BUILD_DEPENDS
and fills up
.Ev CONFIGURE_ARGS ,
.Ev CONFIGURE_ENV
and
.Ev MAKE_ENV .
Sets up
.Cm configure
target.
If
.Ev CONFIGURE_STYLE
was not set before, sets its value to `cmake'.
Changes default value of
.Ev SEPARATE_BUILD
to `Yes' because modern CMake requires out-of-source build anyway.
Changes
.Ev TEST_TARGET
to `test' as this is standard for CMake projects.
Also this module has the following knobs:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It MODCMAKE_WANTCOLOR
If set to `Yes', CMake will colorize its output.
Should not be used in ports Makefiles.
Default value is `No'.
.It MODCMAKE_VERBOSE
If set to `Yes', CMake will print details during configure and build
stages about exact command being run, etc.
Should not be used in ports Makefiles.
Default value is `Yes'.
.It MODCMAKE_DEBUG
If set to `Yes', CMake will produce a debug build instead of a release
build.
The exact effects on the build process depend on settings specified in
the CMake config files.
Default value is `No'.
.El
Also,
.Sq nojunk
is added to DPB_PROPERTIES because CMake's include files parser cheats
too much.
.It devel/cargo
Automates download and compilation of dependencies of a Rust project using
.Xr cargo 1 .
During
.Cm fetch ,
static dependencies ("crates") listed in
.Ev MODCARGO_CRATES
are downloaded using
.Ev MODCARGO_DIST_SUBDIR
as
.Ev DIST_SUBDIR .
During
.Cm post-extract ,
crates defined in
.Ev MODCARGO_CRATES
are moved to the
.Ev MODCARGO_VENDOR_DIR
directory.
During
.Cm post-patch ,
crate-metadata are generated using
.Pa devel/cargo-generate-vendor .
With
.Ev CONFIGURE_STYLE
set to
.Sq cargo ,
cargo is configured to use
.Ev MODCARGO_VENDOR_DIR
instead of the standard crates-io network source.
Finally, any crates listed in
.Ev MODCARGO_CRATES_UPDATE
are updated.
.Ev MODCARGO_RUSTFLAGS
can be used to pass custom flags to all
.Xr rustc 1
invocations.
.Pp
.Pa lang/rust ,
.Pa devel/cargo
and
.Pa devel/cargo-generate-vendor
are added to
.Ev BUILD_DEPENDS .
By default
.Ev MASTER_SITES9
is used to download the crates.
.Pp
This module defines:
.Bl -tag -width MODCARGO_CRATES_UPDATE
.It MODCARGO_CARGOTOML
Path to cargo manifest.
Defaults to
.Pa ${WRKSRC}/Cargo.toml .
.It MODCARGO_CRATES
Crates that will be downloaded by the module.
.It MODCARGO_CRATES_UPDATE
List of crates to update, overriding the version listed in Cargo.lock.
.It MODCARGO_FEATURES
List of features to be used when building.
.It MODCARGO_VENDOR_DIR
Name of the local directory for vendoring crates.
Defaults to
.Pa ${WRKSRC}/modcargo-crates .
.El
.Pp
This module adds three
.Xr make 1
targets:
.Bl -tag -width modcargo-gen-crates-licenses
.It Cm modcargo-metadata
Rerun the generation of crates' metadata.
.It Cm modcargo-gen-crates
Generate the
.Ev MODCARGO_CRATES
list from Cargo.lock (a preliminary crates list is not required).
.It Cm modcargo-gen-crates-licenses
Generate the
.Ev MODCARGO_CRATES
list with license information from crates present in the
.Ev MODCARGO_VENDOR_DIR
directory.
.El
.It devel/dconf
Sets
.Ev CONFIGURE_ARGS ,
.Ev BUILD_DEPENDS
and
.Ev RUN_DEPENDS .
This module is used by ports installing gsettings schemas under
.Pa ${PREFIX}/share/glib-2.0/schemas/ .
It requires the following goo in the PLIST:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
@exec %D/bin/glib-compile-schemas %D/share/glib-2.0/schemas >/dev/null
@unexec-delete %D/bin/glib-compile-schemas %D/share/glib-2.0/schemas >/dev/null
.Ed
.It devel/gconf2
A link from
.Xr gconftool-2 1
to
.Xr true 1
will be put at the front of the
.Ev PATH .
Sets
.Ev CONFIGURE_ARGS ,
.Ev BUILD_DEPENDS
and
.Ev RUN_DEPENDS .
According to the values of
.Ev MODGCONF2_LIBDEP ,
sets
.Ev LIB_DEPENDS .
User settings: set
.Ev MODGCONF2_SCHEMAS_DIR
to the directory name under
.Pa ${LOCALBASE}/share/schemas/
where schemas files will be installed.
.It devel/meson
Adds
.Pa devel/meson
and
.Pa devel/ninja
to
.Ev BUILD_DEPENDS .
Sets up
.Cm configure
target.
If
.Ev CONFIGURE_STYLE
was not set before, sets its value to `meson'.
Changes default value of
.Ev SEPARATE_BUILD
to `Yes' because meson requires out-of-source build.
Also this module has the following knob:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It MODMESON_WANTCOLOR
If set to `Yes', meson will colorize its output.
Should not be used in ports Makefiles.
Default value is `No'.
.El
.It devel/pmk
Sets
.Ev CONFIGURE_SCRIPT ,
.Ev CONFIGURE_ARGS
and
.Ev MODPMK_configure .
It appends
.Pa devel/pmk
to
.Ev BUILD_DEPENDS .
.It devel/qmake
This module automates usage of qmake, independently of the actual
version of Qt being used.
This module requires that one of the
.Pa x11/qt3 ,
.Pa x11/qt4
or
.Pa x11/qt5
to be used as well.
.Pp
If
.Ev CONFIGURE_STYLE
was not set before, sets its value to
.Sq qmake .
If
.Ev CONFIGURE_STYLE
contains
.Sq qmake
the module will define each of the
.Ar do-build
and
.Ar do-install
targets, unless port already defines one; also,
.Ev SEPARATE_BUILD
will be set to
.Sq Yes
unless it's already set to some value.
Also, unless
.Ev NO_TEST
is set, the
.Ar do-test
target will be defined.
.Pp
The following variables could be used in qmake-based ports:
.Bl -tag -width 1234
.It Ev MODQMAKE_ARGS
Additional arguments for qmake invocation.
The module already defines some.
.It Ev MODQMAKE_INSTALL_ROOT
Root directory for fake install.
Normally, it's a WRKINST, but some (broken) ports require another value,
like PREFIX.
.It Ev MODQMAKE_PROJECTS
List of qmake project files to be used, relative to WRKSRC.
Directories containing those projects could be used as well,
see qmake documentation for details.
Defaults to
.Sq \&. ,
which means the (only) project in WRKSRC directory.
.It Ev MODQMAKE_RECURSIVE
If
.Sq Yes ,
then qmake will be run recursively during configure stage;
otherwise, only projects mentioned in
.Ev MODQMAKE_PROJECTS
will be processed during configure stage, and their descendants will
be visited during main build phase.
Sometimes a qmake project processing depends on files generated
by other qmake project during build, and recursive builds break this.
For Qt4+ defaults to
.Sq Yes ,
and Qt3 doesn't support recursive configuring.
.It Ev MODQMAKE_build
Actual commands that module will use to build all
.Ev MODQMAKE_PROJECTS
provided.
To be used in complicated cases, when port have to use its own
.Ar do-build
target or mix different
.Ev CONFIGURE_STYLE
values.
.It Ev MODQMAKE_install
Same as for
.Ev MODQMAKE_build ,
but used in
.Ar do-install
stage.
.El
.It devel/scons
Adds
.Pa devel/scons
to
.Ev BUILD_DEPENDS .
Sets
.Ev MODSCONS_BIN
and
.Ev MODSCONS_ENV .
Also defines an overridable
.Ev MODSCONS_FLAGS .
It provides a
.Cm do-build
and
.Cm do-install
targets that can be overridden in the port Makefile.
.It font
.It fortran
Sets
.Ev MODFORTRAN_LIB_DEPENDS ,
.Ev MODFORTRAN_WANTLIB ,
.Ev MODFORTRAN_BUILD_DEPENDS .
Set
.Ev MODFORTRAN_COMPILER
to `g77' or `gfortran', depending on what the port requires.
The default is `g77'.
The dependencies are chosen according to
.Ev MODFORTRAN_COMPILER .
.It gcc4
If
.Ev COMPILER_VERSION
is not gcc4 (defined by
.Pa /usr/share/mk/bsd.own.mk ) ,
and architecture is in
.Ev MODGCC4_ARCHS ,
then the gcc4 compilers will be put at the front of the path.
By default, only C language support is included by this module.
If other languages are needed, they must be listed in
.Ev MODGCC4_LANGS
(e.g. c++, fortran).
The
.Ev MODGCC4_VERSION
variable can be used to change the version of gcc.
By default gcc 4.9 is used.
If
.Ev MODGCC4_LANGS
contains c++, this module provides
.Ev MODGCC4_CPPLIBDEP
and
.Ev MODGCC4_CPPWANTLIB .
.It gnu
This module is documented in the main
.Xr bsd.port.mk 5
manpage.
.It imake
This module is documented in the main
.Xr bsd.port.mk 5
manpage.
.It java
Set
.Li MODJAVA_VER=x.y
to use exactly the JDK x.y,
.Li MODJAVA_VER=x.y+
to use any x.y or higher version.
Set
.Li MODJAVA_JRERUN=Yes
if the port only needs the JRE at runtime.
The module sets
.Ev JAVA_HOME ,
.Ev ONLY_FOR_ARCHS ,
.Ev MODJAVA_RUN_DEPENDS ,
.Ev MODJAVA_SHARE_DIR ,
.Ev MODJAVA_JAR_DIR ,
.Ev MODJAVA_EXAMPLE_DIR
and
.Ev MODJAVA_DOC_DIR .
It appends to
.Ev BUILD_DEPENDS ,
.Ev RUN_DEPENDS ,
.Ev CATEGORIES
and
.Ev SUBST_VARS .
If
.Li MODJAVA_BUILD=ant
then this module provides
.Ev MODJAVA_BUILD_DIR ,
.Ev MODJAVA_BUILD_FILE
and
.Ev MODJAVA_BUILD_TARGET_NAME ,
as well as a
.Cm do-build
target (if not already defined).
It heeds
.Ev NO_BUILD .
.It lang/clang
Similar to gcc3 and gcc4 modules.
If architecture is in MODCLANG_ARCHS, the CLang compilers will be
put at the front of the path.
By default, only C language support is included by this module.
If other languages are needed, they must be listed in
.Ev MODCLANG_LANGS
(e.g. c++).
Sets
.Ev MODCLANG_VERSION
which is also appended to
.Ev SUBST_VARS .
.It lang/erlang
.It lang/ghc
Sets
.Ev ONLY_FOR_ARCHS ,
.Ev MODGHC_VER ,
.Ev BUILD_DEPENDS ,
and
.Ev RUN_DEPENDS .
Build and further actions are based on the list of values in
.Ev MODGHC_BUILD :
.Bl -tag -width register
.It Ar nort
no runtime dependency on
.Pa lang/ghc
nor the hs- prefix to
.Ev PKGNAME
will be added,
.It Ar cabal
get the typical Cabal targets defined,
.It Ar haddock
generate API documentation using
.Pa devel/haddock ,
.It Ar register
create and include register/unregister scripts,
.It Ar hackage
the distfiles are available on Hackage.
.El
.Pp
Also affects
.Ev CATEGORIES ,
.Ev CONFIGURE_STYLE
and
.Ev SUBST_VARS .
.Cm do-build ,
.Cm do-install
and
.Cm do-test
targets are provided if the port itself didn't set them.
If
.Ar register
has been set, the PLIST needs to be modified in order to
add the relevant @exec/@unexec lines.
This module will run the Setup script and ensure the documentation
will be built (if
.Ar haddock
has been set), and that the package is
registered as a library usable by
.Pa lang/ghc
(if
.Ar register
has been set).
Extra arguments and environment additions for the Setup configure
command can be specified with
.Ev MODGHC_SETUP_CONF_ARGS
and
.Ev MODGHC_SETUP_CONF_ENV .
.It lang/go
Adds Go toolchain support.
Requires
.Ev ALL_TARGET
to be set to canonical Go import path of port.
(Module sets it automatically for ports that use
.Ev GH_ACCOUNT
and
.Ev GH_PROJECT
macros.)
.Pp
During execution of
.Cm pre-configure
target module moves source code from
.Pa ${MODGO_SUBDIR}
to
.Pa ${WRKSRC} ,
subdirectory of
.Pa ${MODGO_WORKSPACE}
- specially-crafted Go workspace located at
.Pa ${WRKDIR}/go .
During
.Cm do-build
module calls
.Dq go install
with
.Ev GOPATH
set to
.Pa ${MODGO_WORKSPACE} ,
runs its output through sed to prevent writes outside
.Ev WRKDIR
sandbox and sends output to
.Xr sh 1 .
During
.Cm do-install
it copies executables from
.Pa ${MODGO_WORKSPACE}/bin
to
.Pa ${PREFIX}/bin ,
and/or directories
.Pa ${MODGO_WORKSPACE}/pkg
and
.Pa ${MODGO_WORKSPACE}/src
to
.Pa ${PREFIX}/go ,
depending on
.Ev MODGO_TYPE
contents.
.Pp
Sets
.Ev BUILD_DEPENDS ,
.Ev RUN_DEPENDS ,
.Ev ALL_TARGET ,
.Ev TEST_TARGET ,
.Ev ONLY_FOR_ARCHS ,
.Ev SEPARATE_BUILD ,
and
.Ev WRKSRC .
.Pp
Appends to
.Ev CATEGORIES .
.Pp
Defines:
.Bl -tag -width MODGO_WORKSPACE
.It Ev MODGO_TYPE
Type of port.
May be any combination of:
.Bl -tag -width lib
.It bin
ordinary binary, which should be installed to
.Pa ${PREFIX}/bin ,
.It lib
library, which should come with source code.
.El
.Pp
Defaults to
.Ar bin .
.It Ev MODGO_WORKSPACE
Path to Go workspace set up for port build process.
Defaults to
.Pa ${WRKDIR}/go .
See Go documentation for details.
.It Ev MODGO_SUBDIR
Path to Go source code within port's sources tarball.
Defaults to
.Pa ${WRKDIST} .
.It Ev MODGO_SETUP_WORKSPACE
Commands setting up Go workspace for building ports.
By default, happens during execution of
.Cm pre-configure
target.
.It Ev MODGO_BUILDDEP
Controls whether contents of
.Ev MODGO_BUILD_DEPENDS
are appended to port's
.Ev BUILD_DEPENDS .
Defaults to
.Ar Yes .
.El
.Pp
Additionally defines
.Ev MODGO_PACKAGES ,
.Ev MODGO_SOURCES
and
.Ev MODGO_TOOLS
(paths for installed Go packages, sources and tools respectively),
.Ev MODGO_CMD
and
.Ev MODGO_FLAGS
(source code build command and flags passed as its arguments),
.Ev MODGO_LDFLAGS ,
.Ev MODGO_BUILD_CMD
and
.Ev MODGO_TEST_CMD
(commands for building and testing go packages; normally called with canonical
Go package names as arguments),
.Ev MODGO_{BUILD,INSTALL,TEST}_TARGET
and
.Ev MODGO_{BUILD,RUN}_DEPENDS .
.It lang/lua
Sets
.Ev MODLUA_BIN ,
.Ev MODLUA_DATADIR ,
.Ev MODLUA_DEP ,
.Ev MODLUA_DEP_VERSION ,
.Ev MODLUA_DOCDIR ,
.Ev MODLUA_EXAMPLEDIR ,
.Ev MODLUA_INCL_DIR ,
.Ev MODLUA_LIB ,
.Ev MODLUA_LIBDIR ,
.Ev MODLUA_VERSION ,
.Ev MODLUA_WANTLIB .
Appends to
.Ev CATEGORIES .
Also appends to
.Ev BUILD_DEPENDS ,
unless
.Ev NO_BUILD
has been set to Yes.
Also appends to
.Ev RUN_DEPENDS ,
unless
.Ev MODLUA_RUNDEP
is set to No.
Appends
.Ev MODLUA_VERSION ,
.Ev MODLUA_LIB ,
.Ev MODLUA_INCL_DIR ,
.Ev MODLUA_EXAMPLEDIR ,
.Ev MODLUA_DOCDIR ,
.Ev MODLUA_LIBDIR ,
.Ev MODLUA_DATADIR ,
.Ev MODLUA_DEP ,
.Ev MODLUA_DEP_VERSION ,
.Ev MODLUA_BIN
to
.Ev SUBST_VARS .
.Ev MODLUA_DEFAULT_VERSION
is set to 5.1.
.Ev MODLUA_VERSION is set to
.Ev MODLUA_DEFAULT_VERSION
by default.
Ports can be built with several lua versions.
If no FLAVOR is set it defaults to MODLUA_DEFAULT_VERSION.
Otherwise the FULLPKGNAME is adjusted, if MODLUA_SA is not set.
In order to set a build, run or test dependency on a lua port,
use the following, which will propagate the currently used flavor:
.Ev MODLUA_BUILD_DEPENDS ,
.Ev MODLUA_TEST_DEPENDS ,
.Ev MODLUA_RUN_DEPENDS .
.It lang/mono
Sets
.Ev MODMONO_ONLY_FOR_ARCHS ,
.Ev CONFIGURE_ENV ,
.Ev MAKE_FLAGS ,
.Ev MODMONO_BUILD_DEPENDS
and
.Ev MODMONO_RUN_DEPENDS .
If
.Ev MODMONO_DEPS
is set to Yes,
.Pa lang/mono
is appended to
.Ev BUILD_DEPENDS
and
.Ev RUN_DEPENDS .
.Ev DLLMAP_FILES
defines in which files the module will substitute hardcoded
shared library versions using a
.Cm post-configure
target.
.It lang/node
Adds common dependencies to
.Ev RUN_DEPENDS
and
.Ev BUILD_DEPENDS .
Recognizes two additional types of
.Ev CONFIGURE_STYLE Ns s ,
"npm" and "npm ext".
"npm ext" should be used for npm packages that contain C++ extensions which
need to be compiled.
"npm" should be used for other npm packages.
If regression tests are included that can be run using
.Pa devel/node-expresso ,
append "expresso" to
.Ev CONFIGURE_STYLE .
.Pa devel/node-expresso
will be appended to
.Ev TEST_DEPENDS
and a default
.Ev MODNODE_TEST_TARGET
will be defined, along with a
.Cm do-test
target if it has not already been set.
If "expresso" isn't appended to
.Ev CONFIGURE_STYLE ,
.Ev TEST_TARGET
will be set to "test".
One of these two
.Ev CONFIGURE_STYLE Ns s
should be used or the module doesn't affect anything except
.Ev RUN_DEPENDS
and
.Ev BUILD_DEPENDS .
Requires
.Ev NPM_NAME
to be set to the name of the npm package.
Uses
.Ev NPM_NAME
and
.Ev NPM_VERSION
to set
.Ev DISTNAME ,
and
.Ev PKGNAME ,
and
.Ev MASTER_SITES .
If the npm package depends on other npm packages, the npm package names it
depends on should be listed in
.Ev MODNODE_DEPENDS .
Adds default
.Cm do_build
and
.Cm do_install
tasks, and you can reference the default implementations via
.Ev MODNODE_BUILD_TARGET
and
.Ev MODNODE_INSTALL_TARGET .
.It lang/ocaml
Appends to
.Ev BUILD_DEPENDS
and
.Ev MAKE_ENV .
This selects a %%native%% plist fragment and
.Ev ocaml_native
property depending on whether the architecture supports native
compilation.
If dynamic linking is supported on the native architecture,
the %%dynlink%% plist fragment and
.Ev ocaml_native_dynlink
property is set.
When
.Ev CONFIGURE_STYLE
is set to `oasis',
overrides for the
.Cm do-build ,
.Cm do-install ,
and
.Cm do-test
targets are added.
.It lang/php
Used for ports using PHP in some way:
either extensions to PHP, or software written in PHP.
Sets
.Ev MODPHP_RUN_DEPENDS ,
.Ev MODPHP_LIB_DEPENDS ,
.Ev MODPHP_WANTLIB ,
.Ev MODPHP_BIN ,
.Ev MODPHP_PHPIZE ,
.Ev MODPHP_PHP_CONFIG ,
.Ev MODPHP_INCDIR
and
.Ev MODPHP_LIBDIR .
Adds to
.Ev RUN_DEPENDS
and
.Ev BUILD_DEPENDS
unless
.Ev MODPHP_RUNDEP
or
.Ev MODPHP_BUILDDEP
are set.
If
.Ev MODPHP_DO_PHPIZE
is set, prepares a build environment for extensions that use phpize.
.Pp
Ports using PDO for database connectivity often have a choice of
dependencies (pdo_sqlite, pdo_mysql, pdo_pgsql and others).
The module constructs
.Ev MODPHP_PDO_DEPENDS
from the PDO types listed in
.Ev MODPHP_PDO_ALLOWED
(defaulting to "sqlite mysql pgsql").
This can be added to
.Ev RUN_DEPENDS
and allows any of these PDO packages to satisfy the dependency, with
.Ev MODPHP_PDO_PREF
(sqlite by default) chosen if none are installed.
.It lang/php/pecl
Used for ports for PHP PECL extensions.
Sets default
.Ev MASTER_SITES ,
.Ev HOMEPAGE ,
.Ev EXTRACT_SUFX ,
.Ev DESTDIRNAME ,
.Ev MODPHP_DO_SAMPLE ,
.Ev MODPHP_DO_PHPIZE ,
.Ev AUTOCONF_VERSION ,
.Ev AUTOMAKE_VERSION ,
.Ev LIBTOOL_FLAGS .
Provides a default
.Ev TEST_TARGET
and
.Ev TEST_FLAGS
unless
.Ev NO_TEST
or a
.Cm do-test
target is defined.
Adds common dependencies to
.Ev RUN_DEPENDS
and
.Ev BUILD_DEPENDS .
Sets a default
.Ev PKGNAME
and appends to
.Ev CATEGORIES .
.It lang/python
Sets
.Ev MODPY_VERSION ,
.Ev MODPY_BIN ,
.Ev MODPY_INCDIR ,
.Ev MODPY_LIBDIR ,
.Ev MODPY_SITEPKG ,
.Ev MODPY_SETUP ,
.Ev MODPY_WANTLIB ,
.Ev MODPY_LIB_DEPENDS ,
.Ev MODPY_RUN_DEPENDS ,
.Ev MODPY_BUILD_DEPENDS
and
.Ev MODPY_ADJ_FILES .
Appends to
.Ev RUN_DEPENDS
unless
.Ev MODPY_RUNDEP
is set to No.
Appends to
.Ev BUILD_DEPENDS
unless
.Ev MODPY_BUILDDEP
is set to No or
.Ev NO_BUILD
is set to Yes.
.Ev MODPY_VERSION
is the default version used by all python modules.
Ports which use the setuptools module should set
.Ev MODPY_SETUPTOOLS
to Yes.
All ports that generate egg-info files should set
.Ev MODPY_EGG_VERSION
to the version string used by the port's setup.py setup() function.
Arguments can be passed to setup.py during
.Cm configure
with
.Ev MODPY_SETUP_ARGS .
Extra arguments to the build and install commands can be passed via
.Ev MODPY_DISTUTILS_BUILDARGS
and
.Ev MODPY_DISTUTILS_INSTALLARGS .
If any files have a python shebang line which needs to be replaced
using MODPY_BIN, list them in
.Ev MODPY_ADJ_FILES .
These are prefixed with WRKSRC and replaced automatically
at the end of
.Cm pre-configure .
Also affects
.Ev CATEGORIES ,
.Ev MAKE_ENV ,
.Ev CONFIGURE_ENV ,
and
.Ev SUBST_VARS .
May affect the
.Cm test
target.
If
.Ev MODPY_PI
is set to Yes it will set
.Ev HOMEPAGE
and
.Ev MASTER_SITES .
The subdirectory can be overridden with
.Ev MODPY_PI_DIR .
.Pp
Python 2.x places .pyc files in the same directory as the associated .py file.
Python 3.x places these in a separate __pycache__ directory and uses an
additional suffix.
In some cases, an ABI tag is also used for names of compiled extensions.
The python module defines variables to allow a single PLIST to be
used for both versions.
Generate or update the PLIST using the python3
.Ev FLAVOR ,
then edit it to prefix any lines creating
.Ev MODPY_PYCACHE
directories with
.Ev MODPY_COMMENT .
As python2 and python3 packages should permit being installed together,
it may be necessary to suffix names of common binaries or directories,
or split common files into a subpackage.
If updating the PLIST without using the python3 flavor,
take care not to remove ${MODPY_PYCACHE}, ${MODPY_PYC_MAGIC_TAG}, or
${MODPY_ABI_TAG} variables from the PLIST.
.It lang/ruby
See
.Xr ruby-module 5 .
.It lang/tcl
Sets
.Ev MODTCL_VERSION ,
.Ev MODTCL_BIN ,
.Ev MODTCL_INCDIR ,
.Ev MODTCL_LIBDIR ,
.Ev MODTCL_BUILD_DEPENDS ,
.Ev MODTCL_RUN_DEPENDS ,
.Ev MODTCL_LIB ,
.Ev MODTCL_LIB_DEPENDS ,
and
.Ev MODTCL_CONFIG .
.Ev MODTCL_VERSION
is the default version used by all Tcl ports and may be overridden.
Provides
.Ev MODTCL_TCLSH_ADJ
and
.Ev MODTCL_WISH_ADJ
shell fragments to patch the interpreter path in executable scripts.
Also affects
.Ev CATEGORIES
and
.Ev SUBST_VARS .
.It perl
This module is documented in the main
.Xr bsd.port.mk 5
manpage.
.It security/heimdal
A link from ${LOCALBASE}/heimdal/bin/krb5-config
to
.Xr krb5-config 1
will be put at the front of the path.
Sets
.Ev LIB_DEPENDS
and
.Ev WANTLIB
according to the values of
.Ev MODHEIMDAL_LIB_DEPENDS ,
and
.Ev MODHEIMDAL_WANTLIB .
.It textproc/intltool
Sets
.Ev MODINTLTOOL_OVERRIDE .
.Pa textproc/intltool
is added to
.Ev BUILD_DEPENDS .
.Ev MODINTLTOOL_OVERRIDE
changes the paths of
.Ev INTLTOOL_EXTRACT ,
.Ev INTLTOOL_MERGE
and
.Ev INTLTOOL_UPDATE
to use the installed versions of intltool-extract,
intltool-merge and intltool-update, instead of the version's packages into the
distfile of the port using this module.
Also affects
.Ev CONFIGURE_ENV ,
.Ev MAKE_ENV
and
.Ev MAKE_FLAGS
by appending
.Ev MODINTLTOOL_OVERRIDE
to them.
.It www/drupal7
Can be used to install plugins (default), themes if
.Ev MODDRUPAL_THEME
is yes, or languages packs if
.Ev DRUPAL_LANG
is set to the desired language.
.Pp
The module may set or add to default values for
.Ev HOMEPAGE ,
.Ev MASTER_SITES ,
.Ev PREFIX ,
.Ev DISTNAME ,
.Ev DIST_SUBDIR ,
.Ev CATEGORIES ,
.Ev PKGNAME ,
.Ev PKG_ARCH ,
.Ev WRKDIST ,
.Ev RUN_DEPENDS .
Drupal modules normally don't have any build part, just an installation part
that defaults to copying the plugin/theme/language files into the right
location through
.Ev MODDRUPAL_INSTALL .
.Pp
The module sets
.Ev DRUPAL
to drupal7,
.Ev DRUPAL_ROOT
to htdocs/${DRUPAL}
.Ev DRUPAL_MODS
to ${DRUPAL_ROOT}/site/all/modules
.Ev DRUPAL_THEMES
to ${DRUPAL_ROOT}/site/all/themes
and
.Ev DRUPAL_TRANSLATIONS
to ${DRUPAL_ROOT}/profiles/standard/translations.
So, by default, modules and themes are installed for all sites,
and translations are activated at install.
.Pp
.Ev DRUPAL_OWNER , DRUPAL_GROUP
are set to root, daemon, since drupal doesn't need to write
to any file except the files/ directory and the site settings (those
belong to www instead).
.Pp
Most modules are actually separate projects on the drupal site.
If
.Ev MODDRUPAL_PROJECT
is set,
.Ev HOMEPAGE
will lead to the corresponding project.
If
.Ev MODDRUPAL_VERSION
is also set,
.Ev DISTNAME
will default to
.Pa ${MODDRUPAL_PROJECT}-7.x-${MODDRUPAL_VERSION} ,
MODDRUPAL_PKGNAME
will default to
.Pa ${MODDRUPAL_PROJECT}
and
.Ev PKGNAME
will default to
.Pa drupal7-${MODDRUPAL_PKGNAME}-${MODDRUPAL_VERSION} .
.Pp
Translations are handled by setting
.Ev DRUPAL_LANG
to the language letter code, and by setting
.Ev LANGFILES
to a list of module names/version pairs.
.Pp
With drupal7, all translations have been put in separate .po files.
It has been deemed simplest to pack all translations for a given language
into a single package, since translations for non installed modules won't
affect anything.
.It www/mozilla
Sets
.Ev PKGNAME ,
.Ev HOMEPAGE ,
.Ev MASTER_SITES ,
.Ev DISTNAME ,
.Ev USE_GMAKE ,
and
.Ev ONLY_FOR_ARCHS .
.Ev EXTRACT_SUFX
defaults to .tar.bz2.
.Pp
Adds common dependencies to
.Ev LIB_DEPENDS ,
.Ev WANTLIB ,
.Ev RUN_DEPENDS
and
.Ev BUILD_DEPENDS .
Sets common
.Ev CONFIGURE_ARGS ,
.Ev MAKE_ENV
and
.Ev CONFIGURE_ENV .
Sets
.Ev MOB
variable as source directory
and
.Ev MOZ
as target directory within
.Cm do-install .
.Pp
Individual port Makefile must set
.Ev MOZILLA_PROJECT ,
.Ev MOZILLA_CODENAME ,
.Ev MOZILLA_VERSION ,
.Ev MOZILLA_BRANCH ,
.Ev MOZILLA_LIBS
and
.Ev MOZILLA_DATADIRS
variables.
Port can also append values to
.Ev MOZILLA_SUBST_FILES
which contains the list of
files to run
.Ev SUBST_CMD
on during
.Cm pre-configure ,
and
.Ev MOZILLA_AUTOCONF_DIRS
which
contains the list of dirs where
.Ev AUTOCONF
will be run during
.Cm pre-configure .
.It www/pear
Used for PHP PEAR ports.
Sets default
.Ev MASTER_SITES ,
.Ev EXTRACT_SUFX ,
.Ev PKGNAME .
Sets
.Ev PREFIX
to
.Pa /var/www .
Sets
.Ev NO_TEST
unless a
.Cm do-test
target is defined.
Adds common dependencies to
.Ev RUN_DEPENDS
and
.Ev BUILD_DEPENDS ,
sets
.Ev MAKE_FILE
and
.Ev FAKE_FLAGS
appropriately.
Makes
.Ev PEAR_LIBDIR
and
.Ev PEAR_PHPBIN
available for use in the port.
Sets a default
.Ev PKGNAME
and appends to
.Ev CATEGORIES .
.It www/plone
Sets
.Ev MODPLONE_VERSION
and
.Ev MODZOPE_VERSION .
.Ev MODPLONE_VERSION
is the default version used by all Plone ports and may be overridden.
It appends
.Pa www/plone
to
.Ev RUN_DEPENDS
and also sets
.Ev NO_TEST
to Yes.
.It x11/gnome
This module has full support for the
.Ar gnu ,
.Ar simple
and
.Ar cmake
CONFIGURE_STYLE.
.Pp
If both
.Ev GNOME_PROJECT
and
.Ev GNOME_VERSION
are set, this module defines
.Ev DISTNAME ,
.Ev VERSION ,
.Ev MASTER_SITES ,
adds x11/gnome to
.Ev CATEGORIES
and
.Ev EXTRACT_SUFX
will default to .tar.xz if unset.
Unless
.Li NO_BUILD=Yes ,
.Pa textproc/intltool
is also appended to
.Ev MODULES
and when CONFIGURE_STYLE is set to
.Ar gnu
or
.Ar simple ,
.Ev USE_GMAKE
is set to "Yes".
.Pp
When CONFIGURE_STYLE is set to
.Ar gnu
or
.Ar simple ,
if none of
.Ev AUTOCONF_VERSION
nor
.Ev AUTOMAKE_VERSION
are defined, then "--disable-maintainer-mode" is appended to
.Ev CONFIGURE_ARGS .
When CONFIGURE_STYLE is set to
.Ar cmake ,
"-DENABLE_MAINTAINER_MODE=OFF" and -DSYSCONF_INSTALL_DIR=${SYSCONFDIR}
are appended to CONFIGURE_ARGS.
.Pp
MODGNOME_CPPFLAGS and MODGNOME_LDFLAGS can be used to add compiler and linker
flags.
.Li CPPFLAGS="-I${LOCALBASE}/include"
and
.Li LDFLAGS="-L${LOCALBASE}/lib"
are always appended to
.Ev CONFIGURE_ENV .
.Pp
Certain build/run dependencies and configure arguments and environment
can be set by appending desktop-file-utils, docbook, gobject-introspection,
gtk-update-icon-cache, shared-mime-info, vala and/or yelp to
.Ev MODGNOME_TOOLS .
They are disabled otherwise.
If
.Ev MODGNOME_TOOLS
is set to desktop-file-utils,
a dependency on
.Pa devel/desktop-file-utils
is appended to
.Ev MODGNOME_RUN_DEPENDS
and a link to /usr/bin/true is created under
.Pa ${WRKDIR}/bin/desktop-file-validate .
If
.Ev MODGNOME_TOOLS
is set to docbook,
.Pa textproc/docbook-xsl
is appended to
.Ev MODGNOME_BUILD_DEPENDS .
This option is used when the generation of the man pages included in the
source tarball requires docbook XML/SGML/XSL definitions and stylesheets.
If
.Ev MODGNOME_TOOLS
is set to gtk-update-icon-cache, a dependency on
.Pa x11/gtk+3,-guic
is appended to
.Ev MODGNOME_RUN_DEPENDS .
If
.Ev MODGNOME_TOOLS
is set to shared-mime-info, a dependency on
.Pa misc/shared-mime-info
is appended to
.Ev MODGNOME_RUN_DEPENDS
and a link to /usr/bin/true is created under
.Pa ${WRKDIR}/bin/update-mime-database .
If
.Ev MODGNOME_TOOLS
is set to yelp,
.Pa textproc/itstool
and
.Pa x11/gnome/doc-utils
are appended to
.Ev MODGNOME_BUILD_DEPENDS .
Furthermore,
.Pa x11/gnome/yelp
is appended to
.Ev MODGNOME_RUN_DEPENDS
if
.Ev MODGNOME_TOOLS
also contains "desktop-file-utils"
This option is to be used when any files are installed into
.Pa share/gnome/help/
or page files are installed into
.Pa share/help/ .
.Ev MODGNOME_BUILD_DEPENDS
and
.Ev MODGNOME_RUN_DEPENDS
are appended to the
corresponding
.Ev BUILD_DEPENDS
and
.Ev RUN_DEPENDS .
.Pp
Some tools require the following goo in the PLIST:
.Pp
.Ar desktop-file-utils
.Bd -literal -offset indent
@exec %D/bin/update-desktop-database
@unexec-delete %D/bin/update-desktop-database
.Ed
.Pp
.Ar gtk-update-icon-cache
($icon-theme is the theme directory)
.Bd -literal -offset indent
@exec %D/bin/gtk-update-icon-cache -q -t %D/share/icons/$icon-theme
@unexec-delete %D/bin/gtk-update-icon-cache -q -t %D/share/icons/$icon-theme
.Ed
.Pp
.Ar shared-mime-info
.Bd -literal -offset indent
@exec %D/bin/update-mime-database %D/share/mime
@unexec-delete %D/bin/update-mime-database %D/share/mime
.Ed
.It x11/gnustep
.It x11/kde
Used for building KDE3-enabled ports.
Main variables there is
.Ev MODKDE_VERSION ,
which defines what patches and tweaks should be applied,
depending of exact KDE version the ported software is build
against of.
.It x11/kde4
Required for building KDE4-enabled ports.
Main variables are: MODKDE4_USE,
MODKDE4_VERSION, MODKDE4_DEP_DIR, MODKDE4_DEP_VERSION, MODKDE4_FLAVOR.
It's used both for KDE4 SC itself and for software built on top of it,
e.g., Digikam.
This module supports several KDE4 trees at the same time, see below.
The following variables are designed to be used in both types of ports:
.Bl -tag -width KDE4LIB
.It Ev MODKDE4_USE
Defines the core components of KDE4 to be used by the port.
Could have zero or more of the following values, in any order:
.Sq libs ,
.Sq runtime ,
.Sq pim ,
.Sq games ,
.Sq workspace .
Could be forced to be empty, this will mean no automated dependencies.
If
.Sq libs
is specified, no dependencies on runtime (kde-runtime or kdepim-runtime)
will be recorded.
The
.Sq workspace
component implies
.Sq runtime .
The
.Sq games
component is to be used by games and affects default HOMEPAGE, too.
If neither
.Sq libs
or
.Sq runtime
are specified, the
.Sq runtime
is implied.
If both
.Sq libs
and
.Sq runtime
are specified, then
.Sq runtime
takes precedence (actually, it's a libs+ anyway).
The
.Sq pim libs
combination adds dependencies on both kdelibs and kdepimlibs,
and
.Sq pim runtime (
or just
.Sq pim )
also adds dependencies on both kde-runtime and kdepim-runtime.
Defaults to
.Sq libs
when
.Ev MODKDE4_RESOURCES
is set to
.Sq Yes ,
and
.Sq runtime
otherwise.
.It Ev MODKDE4_DEP_DIR
Expands to
.Sq x11/kdeVERSION
where version depends on current
.Ev MODKDE4_VERSION ,
see below.
Read-only.
.It Ev MODKDE4_DEP_VERSION
Expands to a string to be used in dependency lines, see
examples in
.Pa x11/kde4/*
ports.
Read-only.
.It Ev MODKDE4_RESOURCES
Should be set to
.Sq Yes
for ports that only provide non-executable stuff like icons,
localization files and so on.
Affects
.Ev FLAVORS ,
.Ev MODKDE4_NO_QT ,
.Ev MODKDE4_USE ,
.Ev MODULES ,
.Ev PKG_ARCH
and
.Ev SUBST_VARS
variables.
Defaults to
.Sq \&No .
.It Ev MODKDE4_INCLUDE_DIR
Path where KDE4 headers to be placed/searched for, relative to
.Ev PREFIX .
Read-only.
.It Ev MODKDE4_LIB_DIR
Path where KDE4 headers to be placed/searched for, relative to
.Ev PREFIX .
Read-only.
.It Ev KDE4LIB
Shorter synonym for
.Ev MODKDE4_LIB_DIR ,
to be used in plists and
.Ev WANTLIB
declarations.
Read-only.
.It Ev MODKDE4_FIX_GETTEXT
If set to
.Sq Yes ,
adds an additional step before building port that
searches for KDE-specific calls of GETTEXT_PROCESS_PO_FILES()
CMake command and tweaks them to be compatible with the one from
FindGettext.cmake module provided by CMake itself.
Defaults to
.Sq Yes .
.It Ev MODKDE4_SYSCONF_FILES
Some KDE ports install files under
.Pa ${SYSCONFDIR} .
We want to have them under
.Ev ${PREFIX}/share/examples
or such, and just be @sample'd under
.Pa ${SYSCONFDIR} .
So add
.Sq file/dir destination
pairs to this variable, and appropriate @sample lines to packing list, e.g.:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
# in Makefile:
MODKDE4_SYSCONF_FILES = dbus-1      share/examples

# in PLIST:
share/examples/dbus-1/system.d/org.kde.baloo.filewatch.conf
@sample ${SYSCONFDIR}/dbus-1/system.d/org.kde.baloo.filewatch.conf
.Ed
.El
.Pp
The following variables are mostly used only inside KDE4 SC:
.Bl -tag -width KDE4LIB
.It MODKDE4_LIB_LINKS
If set to
.Sq Yes ,
soft links for shared libraries in
.Pa ${PREFIX}/lib
to
.Pa ${MODKDE4_LIB_DIR}
will be created.
Used to distinguish libraries from different KDE versions (3, 4...).
Defaults to
.Sq \&No .
.It KDE4_ONLY
If set to
.Sq Yes ,
sets the
.Xr dpb 1
tag to
.Sq kde4 .
Defaults to
.Sq \&No
when
.Ev MODKDE4_USE
is empty, and to
.Sq Yes
otherwise.
.El
.Pp
The following variables are likely to be used only outside KDE4 SC:
.Bl -tag -width KDE4LIB
.It MODKDE4_NO_QT
If set to
.Sq Yes ,
avoids automatic addition of x11/qt4 to
.Ev MODULES .
.El
.Pp
The x11/kde4 module supports co-existence of different KDE4 SC version
ports subtrees.
There always is a so-called stable tree in
.Pa ${PORTSDIR}/x11/kde4
and additional trees are placed in
.Pa ${PORTSDIR}/x11/kdeXYZ ,
where
.Sq XYZ
correspond to the
.Sq X.Y.Z
KDE version.
So, say, KDE 4.12.4 tree should be placed in
.Pa ${PORTSDIR}/x11/kde4124
directory.
The process of preparing a new KDE SC version subtree is automated,
just use kde-release-helper script:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
cd ${PORTSDIR}/x11/kde4
\&./kde-release-helper prepare 4.12.4
.Ed
This will copy the x11/kde4 subtree to x11/kde4124 and strip it:
remove
.Ev REVISION
marks, remove distinfo files and so on.
.Pp
To access the new version then you'll need to add appropriate
values at the top of x11/kde4 module file itself.
Then you be able to use automatically created
.Sq kdeXYZ
.Ev FLAVOR
to reference corresponding KDE4 SC version outside x11/kde4*.
.Pp
The x11/kde4 module sets the following variables unless they're already
set by a port:
.Ev CONFIGURE_STYLE ,
.Ev EXTRACT_SUFX ,
.Ev ONLY_FOR_ARCHS ,
.Ev PORTHOME ,
and
.Ev SEPARATE_BUILD .
.Pp
The x11/kde4 module modifies the following variables if needed:
.Ev BUILD_DEPENDS ,
.Ev CONFIGURE_ARGS ,
.Ev CONFIGURE_ENV ,
.Ev LIB_DEPENDS ,
.Ev RUN_DEPENDS ,
and
.Ev WANTLIB .
.Pp
The x11/kde4 module automatically adds devel/cmake to
.Ev MODULES
unless
.Ev NO_BUILD
is set to
.Sq Yes .
The x11/kde4 module automatically adds x11/qt4 to
.Ev MODULES
unless
.Ev MODKDE4_NO_QT
is set to
.Sq Yes .
The x11/kde4 module automatically adds gcc4 to
.Ev MODULES
unless
.Ev MODKDE4_RESOURCES
is set to
.Sq Yes .
.It x11/qt3, x11/qt4 and x11/qt5
All qt* modules share a common
.Ev MODQT_*
namespace for simple ports.
The qt3 module also defines the same variables under
.Ev MODQT3_* ,
the qt4 module also defines the same variables under
.Ev MODQT4_*
and the qt5 module also defines the same variables under
.Ev MODQT5_* ,
to allow ports to use both modules, such as
.Pa print/poppler .
.Pp
Those modules define
.Ev MODQT*_LIBDIR
as the libraries location,
.Ev MODQT*_INCDIR
as the include files location,
.Ev MODQT*_QTDIR
as the global qt directory location,
.Ev MODQT*_CONFIGURE_ARGS
as standard GNU configure-style parameters to locate the include and libraries.
.Pp
The location of Qt-specific tools
.Nm lrelease ,
.Nm moc ,
.Nm qmake
and
.Nm uic
is available through
.Ev MODQT*_LRELEASE ,
.Ev MODQT*_MOC ,
.Ev MODQT*_QMAKE
and
.Ev MODQT*_UIC .
.Ev MODQT*_OVERRIDE_UIC
controls whether the default setup will force a value of
.Ev UIC
or not.
The value of
.Ev MOC
is always forced to ${MODQT*_MOC}.
.Pp
In most cases the
.Pa devel/qmake
module should be used instead of using
.Ev MODQT*_QMAKE
directly.
.Pp
qt4 includes
.Xr pkg-config 1
files under a specific location recorded in
.Ev MODQT_PKG_CONFIG_PATH .
Qt3 requires the use of
.Ev MODQT3_PLUGINS
to correctly locate plugins.
.Pp
The modules add to
.Ev CONFIGURE_ENV , MAKE_ENV
and
.Ev MAKE_FLAGS .
They define appropriate
.Ev MODQT*_LIB_DEPENDS
and
.Ev MODQT*_WANTLIB .
.Pp
Note that Qt 4 and Qt 5 has their code split over several libraries.
For the qt4 module the basic
.Ev WANTLIB
only refers to QtCore, and other libraries should be added as needed.
The qt5 module doesn't set
.Ev MODQT*_WANTLIB
at all.
Also, Qt 5 consists of many so called Qt modules, and qt5 port module
only refers to qtbase Qt 5 module; other Qt modules should be added to
.Ev LIB_DEPENDS ,
.Ev BUILD_DEPENDS
or
.Ev RUN_DEPENDS
manually.
.It x11/tk
Sets
.Ev MODTK_VERSION ,
.Ev MODTK_BIN ,
.Ev MODTK_INCDIR ,
.Ev MODTK_LIBDIR ,
.Ev MODTK_BUILD_DEPENDS ,
.Ev MODTK_RUN_DEPENDS ,
.Ev MODTK_LIB ,
.Ev MODTK_LIB_DEPENDS ,
and
.Ev MODTK_CONFIG .
.Ev MODTK_VERSION
is the default version used by all Tk ports and
may be overridden.
Automatically adds the
.Pa lang/tcl
module, provides a default
.Ev MODTCL_VERSION
to match
.Ev MODTK_VERSION ,
and affects
.Ev CATEGORIES
and
.Ev SUBST_VARS .
Note the
.Ev MODTCL_WISH_ADJ
shell fragment in the
.Pa lang/tcl
module.
.It x11/xfce4
Sets
.Ev DIST_SUBDIR ,
.Ev EXTRACT_SUFX ,
.Ev CONFIGURE_STYLE ,
.Ev CONFIGURE_ENV
and
.Ev USE_GMAKE .
If
.Ev MODXFCE_ICON_CACHE
is set to yes, it adds
.Pa x11/gtk+3,-guic
to
.Ev RUN_DEPENDS .
Unless
.Ev XFCE_NO_SRC
is set,
.Pa textproc/intltool
is added to
.Ev MODULES .
Also affects
.Ev CATEGORIES .
.Pp
Xfce ports can be divided into five categories: core libraries and
applications, goodies, artwork, thunar plugins, and panel plugins.
.Ev HOMEPAGE ,
.Ev MASTER_SITES
and
.Ev DISTNAME
are built using
.Ev XFCE_VERSION
(which defaults to
.Ev XFCE_DESKTOP_VERSION
if not set) and either
.Ev XFCE_PROJECT ,
.Ev XFCE_GOODIE ,
.Ev XFCE_ARTWORK ,
.Ev THUNAR_PLUGIN
or
.Ev XFCE_PLUGIN .
One of the latter has to be provided by the port Makefile.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr make 1 ,
.Xr bsd.port.mk 5 ,
.Xr ports 7
