.\"	$OpenBSD: python-module.5,v 1.7 2022/12/06 16:18:51 sthen Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008 Marc Espie
.\"
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE DEVELOPERS ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE DEVELOPERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: December 6 2022 $
.Dt PYTHON-MODULE 5
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm python-module
.Nd lang/python port module
.Sh DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents the behavior of setting
.Li MODULES=lang/python
in the
.Xr ports 7
tree.
.Pp
By default, the module sets
.Ev MODPY_VERSION
to the appropriate python version
.Po
depending on the existence/presence of a
.Sq python3
.Ev FLAVOR
.Pc ,
but
.Ev MODPY_VERSION
may be set manually to ${MODPY_DEFAULT_VERSION_2}
for legacy ports.
.Pp
The module then sets
.Ev MODPY_BIN ,
.Ev MODPY_INCDIR ,
.Ev MODPY_LIBDIR ,
.Ev MODPY_SITEPKG ,
.Ev MODPY_SETUP ,
.Ev MODPY_TEST_DIR ,
.Ev MODPY_TEST_LOCALE ,
.Ev MODPY_WANTLIB ,
.Ev MODPY_LIB_DEPENDS ,
.Ev MODPY_RUN_DEPENDS ,
.Ev MODPY_TEST_DEPENDS ,
.Ev MODPY_BUILD_DEPENDS ,
and
.Ev MODPY_ADJ_FILES
accordingly.
.Pp
The module also appends to
.Bl -bullet
.It
.Ev RUN_DEPENDS
unless
.Ev MODPY_RUNDEP
is set to No,
.It
.Ev BUILD_DEPENDS
unless
.Ev MODPY_BUILDDEP
is set to No or
.Ev NO_BUILD
is set to Yes,
.It
.Ev TEST_DEPENDS
if
.Ev MODPY_PYTEST
is set to Yes
unless
.Ev MODPY_TESTDEP
is set to No.
.El
.Pp
It also appends
.Ev MODPY_TEST_LOCALE
to
.Ev TEST_ENV
and changes to the directory specified in
.Ev MODPY_TEST_DIR
.Po
by default ${WRKSRC}
.Pc
before running tests.
.Pp
Most modern Python software can be packaged using a PEP 517 build
frontend (in the
.Pa devel/py-build
port).
To use this, set
.Ev MODPY_PYBUILD
to the name of the build backend.
If the port provides a
.Pa pyproject.toml
file, check the "build-backend" line in the [build-system] section.
.Nm
currently supports flit_core, hatchling, hatch-vcs, poetry-core, setuptools
and setuptools_scm.
If no
.Pa pyproject.toml
is provided then it probably uses setuptools.
Setting
.Ev MODPY_PYBUILD
adds the backend to
.Ev MODPY_BUILD_DEPENDS ,
and sets
.Ev MODPY_PYTEST .
In rare cases, the build backend is distributed with the software
itself and
.Ev MODPY_PYBUILD
can be set to Yes to use this mechanism without adding a dependency
for another backend.
.Pp
Older ports using setuptools still set
.Ev MODPY_SETUPTOOLS
to Yes, which appends to
.Ev MODPY_BUILD_DEPENDS
and calls the relevant commands to build (these ports are built
using the deprecated mechanism of calling
.Pa setup.py
directly).
Arguments can be passed to setup.py during
.Cm configure
with
.Ev MODPY_SETUP_ARGS .
Extra arguments to the build and install commands can be passed via
.Ev MODPY_DISTUTILS_BUILDARGS
and
.Ev MODPY_DISTUTILS_INSTALLARGS .
These ports can often be converted to
.Ev MODPY_PYBUILD
with some small changes to the port.
.Pp
Ports which use the pytest module should set
.Ev MODPY_PYTEST
to Yes.
This is set automatically for builds using
.Ev MODPY_PYBUILD .
Arguments can be passed to pytest during
.Cm test
with
.Ev MODPY_PYTEST_ARGS ,
for example to list names of test scripts if the automatic
detection fails,
to disable certain test scripts with
.Sq --ignore ,
or to disable certain individual tests with
.Sq -k .
.Pp
All ports that generate egg-info or dist-info files should set
.Ev MODPY_EGG_VERSION
to the version string used by the
.Fn setup
function in the port's
.Pa setup.py
or the version in
.Pa pyproject.toml .
.Pp
If any files have a python shebang line where the interpreter should be
${MODPY_BIN}, list them in
.Ev MODPY_ADJ_FILES .
These filenames can be relative to ${WRKSRC} and will be modified
at the end of
.Cm pre-configure .
.Pp
This module also affects
.Ev CATEGORIES ,
.Ev MAKE_ENV ,
.Ev CONFIGURE_ENV ,
and
.Ev SUBST_VARS ,
and it may affect the
.Cm test
target.
.Pp
If
.Ev MODPY_PI
is set to
.Sq Yes ,
the module will provide a default for
.Ev HOMEPAGE
and set
.Ev MASTER_SITES
.Po
the subdirectory can be overridden with
.Ev MODPY_PI_DIR
.Pc .
.Ss Packing-list generation
Python 2.x places .pyc files in the same directory as the associated .py file.
Python 3.x places these in a separate __pycache__ directory and uses an
additional suffix.
In some cases, an ABI tag is also used for names of compiled extensions.
The python module defines variables to allow a single
.Pa PLIST
to be
used for both versions:
generate or update the
.Pa PLIST
using the python3
.Ev FLAVOR ,
then edit it to prefix any lines creating
.Ev MODPY_PYCACHE
directories with
.Ev MODPY_COMMENT .
As python2 and python3 packages should permit being installed together,
it may be necessary to suffix names of common binaries or directories,
or split common files into a subpackage.
If updating the PLIST without using the python3 flavor,
take care not to remove ${MODPY_PYCACHE}, ${MODPY_PYC_MAGIC_TAG}, or
${MODPY_ABI_TAG} variables from the PLIST.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr port-modules 5
