.\"	$OpenBSD: spamd.conf.5,v 1.1 2003/03/08 19:26:31 beck Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2003 Jason L. Wright (jason@thought.net)
.\" Copyright (c) 2003 Bob Beck
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"      This product includes software developed by Jason L. Wright
.\" 4. The name of the author may not be used to endorse or promote products
.\"    derived from this software without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
.\" DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT,
.\" INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
.\" (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
.\" SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
.\" STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN
.\" POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd March 8, 2003
.Dt SPAMD.CONF 5
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm spamd.conf
.Nd configuration file read by
.Xr spamd-setup 8 
for
.Xr spamd 8
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm spamd.conf
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
file is read by
.Xr spamd-setup 8
to configure blacklists and whitelists with corresponding
.Xr pf 4
table entries for 
.Xr spamd 8
.Nm
follows the syntax of configuration databases as documented in 
.Xr getcap 3 . 
Example:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
.Ic all:\e
.Ic 	:spews1:white:myblack:\e
.Ic 	
.Ic spews1:\e
.Ic 	:black\e
.Ic 	:msg=\e"SPAM. Your address \%A is in the spews level\e
.Ic 	1 database\en see http://www.spews.org/ask.cgi?x=%A\en\e":\e
.Ic 	:method=http:\e	
.Ic 	:file=www.spews.org/spews_list_level1.txt:
.Ic \ \	
.Ic white:\e
.Ic 	:white:\e
.Ic 	:method=file:\e
.Ic 	:file=/var/white/mywhite:\e
.Ic \ \ 
.Ic myblack:\e
.Ic 	:black:\e
.Ic 	:msg=/var/mail/myblackmsg.txt:\e
.Ic 	:method=file:\e
.Ic 	:file=/var/mail/myblack.txt
.Ed
.Pp
The default configuration file must include the entry
.Ar all
which specifies the order in which named blacklists and whitelists
are to be applied. The addresses in a whitelist are removed from the
preceeding blacklist. In the above example, if address that was present
in all three lists, blacklists
.Ar spews1
and
.Ar myblack
as well as whitelist
.Ar white ,
the address would be removed from blacklist
.Ar spews1
by the subsequent
.Ar white
whitelist. However, the address would not be removed from the
.Ar myblack
blacklist. To remove all the addresses in
.Ar white
from
.Ar myblack
the configution
.Bd -literal -offset indent
.Ic all:\e
.Ic 	:spews1:white:myblack:white:\e
.Ic 	
.Ed
would be used instead.
.Pp blacklists and whitelists are then constructed by name,
blacklists are identified by the capability
.Ar black
and whitelists by the capability
.Ar white .
.Pp
The source of the addresses for blacklists and whitelists is 
specified using the
.Ar method
and 
.Ar file
capability entries.
.Ar method
specifies the method by which to retrieve the addresses, which may
be 
.Ar http
.Ar ftp
.Ar file
or
.Ar exec .
The methods
.Ar http
.Ar ftp
and
.Ar file
capabilities will make
.Nm
retrieve the source file as specified in the location in
the 
.Ar file
capability for the list.
The
.Ar exec
capability will make 
.Nm
spawn the program with arguments indicated in the
.Ar file
capability for the list, and read the source file
from the output of the program. the source file for each blacklist or
whitelist is expected to consist of one network block or address per
line (optionally followed by a space and text that is ignored).
Comment lines beginning with
.Ar #
are ignored.
Network blocks may be specified in any of the formats as in
the following example:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
.Ic # CIDR format
.Ic 192.168.20.0/24
.Ic # A start - end range
.Ic 192.168.21.0 - 192.168.21.255
.Ic # As a single IP address
.Ic 192.168.23.1
.Ed
.Pp
Each blacklist must include a message, specified with the
.Ar msg
capability as a string. The argument to 
.Ar msg
specifies the message, the message may be includes in 
quotes, in which case characters may be escaped as specified in
.Xr getcap 3
with the execption that a colon (:) is allowed in the quoted string.
Alternatively, if the argument to
.Ar msg
is not specified in quotes, it is assumed to be a local filename
from which the message text may be read.
The message is configured in 
.Xr spamd 8
to be displayed in the smtp dialogue to any connections that match addresses
in the blacklist.
\e\" will produce a double quote in the output,
and %% will produce a single % in the output.
%A will be expanded by
.Xr spamd 8
to display the connecting IP address in the output.
.Pp
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr ftp 1 ,
.Xr pf 4 ,
.Xr spamd-setup 8,
.Xr spamd 8
