.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1994 James A. Jegers
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. The name of the author may not be used to endorse or promote products
.\"    derived from this software without specific prior written permission
.\" 
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd November 29, 1994
.Dt AHA 4 i386
.Os NetBSD 
.Sh NAME
.Nm aha
.Nd Adaptec 154x SCSI adapter driver
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Cd "aha0 at isa? port 0x330 irq ? drq ?"
.Cd "scsibus* at aha?"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm aha 
driver provides support for the following SCSI adapters:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width -offset indent -compact
.It Adaptec AHA-154xA
.It Adaptec AHA-154xB
.It Adaptec AHA-154xC
.It Adaptec AHA-154xCF
.It Buslogic BT-54x
.It Tekram DC-300B
.It Tekram DC-320E
.It Tekram DC-380
.El
.Sh BUGS
The
.Nm
driver can not be used on systems with more than 16 megabytes of
memory.
.Pp
Due to the 24 bit addressing limitation of the ISA bus, The SCSI
adapter's onboard DMA controller is unable to access memory with
addresses greater than 16 megabytes.  
.Pp
This restriction can be fixed with "bounce buffers", buffers in low
memory which are used whenever data to be transfered to or from the
SCSI adapter is above the 16 megabyte threshold.  The data is copied
to the bounce buffer, then copied from the bounce buffer to its
destination.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr intro 4 ,
.Xr sd 4 ,
.Xr st 4 ,
.Xr cd 4 ,
.Xr ch 4
