.\"
.\"	$OpenBSD: bktr.4,v 1.5 2000/11/10 20:02:18 todd Exp $
.\"	$FreeBSD: bktr.4,v 1.1 1998/03/09 10:56:22 jkh Exp $
.\"
.Dd January 28, 1998
.Dt BKTR 4 i386
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm bktr
.Nd brooktree video capture driver
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm device bktr0
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
driver provides support for PCI video capture on low cost, high performance
boards.
The driver is heavily based on the Matrox Meteor driver.
The
.Nm
driver should support most video cards based on the
.Em Brooktree Bt848 Video Capture Chip.
.Pp
Specifically, the following cards are known to work:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width -offset indent -compact
.It Hauppage Wincast TV
.It STB TV PCI Television Tuner
.It Miro PC TV
.It MIntel Smart Video Recorder III
.El
.Pp
The driver currently supports the following features:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width -offset indent -compact
.It PCI-to-PCI DMA transfer
.It Clipping
.It YUV
.It RGB16, RGB24, RGB32
.El
.Pp
The following kernel parameters may be used to further configure the driver:
.Pp
.Bl -ohang
.It Cd option "BROOKTREE_ALLOC_PAGES=xxx"
Specifies the number of contiguous pages to allocate when successfully probed.
The default number of pages allocated by the kernel is 216.
This means that there are (216*4096) bytes available for use.
.El
.Sh AUTHORS
This driver is based on the work of
.An Jim Lowe Aq james@miller.cs.uwm.edu ,
.An Mark Tinguely Aq tinguely@plains.nodak.edu ,
.An Amancio Hasty Aq hasty@star-gate.com
and a bunch of other people.
.\" .Sh FILES
.\" .Bl -tag -width /usr/share/examples/meteor -compact
.\" .It Pa /usr/share/examples/meteor
.\" Examples of what you can do with the (similarly designed) Meteor driver.
.\" .It Pa /usr/ports/graphics/fxtv
.\" A display program utilizing the bktr driver - requires that
.\" .Em The X Window System
.\" and
.\" .Em The Ports Collection
.\" also be installed.
.\" .El
.\" .Sh SEE ALSO
.\" .Xr meteor 4
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
driver first appeared in
.Fx 2.2 .
