.\"	$NetBSD: gus.4,v 1.1 1995/11/13 14:39:16 pk Exp $
.\" Copyright (c) 1995 John T. Kohl
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. The name of the author may not be used to endorse or promote products
.\"    derived from this software without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR `AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
.\" DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT,
.\" INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
.\" (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
.\" SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
.\" STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN
.\" ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
.\" POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"	
.\"
.Dd November 4, 1995
.Dt GUS 4 i386
.Os 
.Sh NAME
.Nm gus
.Nd
Gravis UltraSound/UltraSound MAX device driver
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Cd "gus0 at isa? port 0xPPP irq X drq Y flags Z"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm gus
driver provides support for the Gravis UltraSound (GUS) and GUS MAX
audio cards.  Both cards have on-board memory which is used for
seamless playback of samples.  They can play back 8- or 16-bit samples
at up to 44.1kHz.  They can record 8-bit samples at up to 44.1kHz.
The UltraSound MAX is a full-duplex sound device, and if
configured with two DRQ channels can be used for simultaneous playback
and recording.  The I/O port base is jumper-selected, and may be chosen
from 0x210-0x260 in steps of 0x10.  (The normal setting is 0x220.)  The
GUS takes 16 ports at its base address and 8 ports at its base address +
0x100.
.Pp
The IRQ is software programmed, so you may select any IRQ from the set
{3,5,7,9,11,12,15}.  The DRQ lines are software programmed, and may be
chosen from {1,3,5,6,7}.  The flags field in the configuration file line
specifies a second DRQ line for recording.  If there is no flags field
in the config file, the playback channel will be used for recording DMA
and only half-duplex mode will be available.
.Pp
The Gravis UltraSound MAX has an additional CODEC onboard which is
addressed with four ports at an offset of 0x10C from the base ports
(0x31C-0x36C).
.Sh BUGS
The full-duplex features of the GUS MAX have not been fully tested, and
full-duplex on the original GUS may not be possible at all.
.Pp
Only two voices on the GF1 synthesizer chip are used by this driver (for
left and right channels).
.Pp
Manipulating the mixer while audio samples are playing can lead to
device driver confusion (and maybe even a system panic).
.Pp
Manipulating the mixer device seems to create pregnant system pauses,
probably due to excessive interrupt masking.
.Pp
The joystick and MIDI port interfaces are not supported.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr audio 4
.Sh REFERENCES
Gravis UltraSound Low-Level Toolkit, Revision 2.01, 20 May 1993,
published by Advanced Gravis and Forte Technologies.
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm gus
device driver appeared in
.Nx 1.1 .
