.\"	$OpenBSD: iy.4,v 1.4 1998/07/12 09:55:23 downsj Exp $
.\"	$NetBSD: iy.4,v 1.2 1996/05/23 16:52:39 thorpej Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1994 Herb Peyerl
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"      This product includes software developed by Herb Peyerl
.\" 3. The name of the author may not be used to endorse or promote products
.\"    derived from this software without specific prior written permission
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd May 22, 1996
.Dt IY 4 i386
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm iy
.Nd Ethernet driver for Intel i82595
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Cd "iy0 at isa? port {port} irq ?"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm iy
device driver supports the Ether-Express PRO/10 card, and might support
other ISA cards using the same chip.

Various models of these cards come with a different assortment of
connectors:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
.It AUI/DIX
Standard 15 pin connector
.It 10Base2
BNC, also known as thin-net
.It 10BaseT
UTP, also known as twisted pair
.El
.Pp
The default port to use is the port the card autodetects at 
.Xr ifconfig up
time. To choose an alternate port,
use the following flag combinations with
.Xr ifconfig 8
or in your /etc/hostname.iy? file.
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
.It -link0 -link1
Use the autodetected port (default).
.It -link0 \ link1
Use the BNC port.
.It \ link0 -link1
Use the AUI port.
.It \ link0 \ link1
Use the UTP port.
.El
.Pp
.Sh NOTES
The Etherexpress PRO card has no jumpers to set the address.
Intel supplies software to set the address of the card in software.
You have to hardwire this address in your kernel configuration file.
.Pp
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr ifconfig 8 ,
.Xr intro 4 ,
.Xr ed 4 ,
.Xr eg 4 ,
.Xr el 4 ,
.Xr ep 4 ,
.Xr ie 4 ,
.Xr le 4
