.\"   $OpenBSD: pss.4,v 1.4 1998/05/12 09:29:49 provos Exp $
.\"   $NetBSD: pss.4,v 1.3 1997/10/05 21:42:20 augustss Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1995 Michael Long.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. The name of the author may not be used to endorse or promote products
.\"    derived from this software without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd November 8, 1995
.Dt PSS 4 i386
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm pss
.Nd Personal Sound System hardware driver
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Cd "device pss0 at isa?"
.Cd "device sp0 at pss? port 0x530 irq 10 drq 0"
.Cd "audio* at sp?"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
driver supports soundcards based on ESC614 or ESC614A ASICs and AD1848
or CS4231 series codecs.  Known examples are:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width -offset indent -compact
.It Cardinal Digital Sound Pro 16
.It Orchid SoundWave 32
.El
.Pp
The Orchid GameWave 32 is based on the ESC614 ASIC, but is not
supported because it does not have a codec.
.Pp
The
.Nm
driver uses the Windows Sound System emulation mode of the ASIC.
It is a half-duplex device.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr audio 4 ,
.Xr wss 4
.Sh BUGS
This driver doesn't work yet.
.Pp
The list of cards using the PSS chipset is incomplete.
.Pp
The ESC614 (version 1) is unable to reliably determine whether DMA
channels are free on some motherboards.  The ASIC determines that all
channels are taken, even if that is untrue.  When this happens, the driver
cannot verify configured DMA channels with the ASIC's DMA autodetect
hardware, so it blindly accepts the user setting.
.Pp
Cards based on the ESC615 ASIC are not supported.
.Pp
The MIDI port, joystick, and CD-ROM drive (if present) are not supported.
