.\"	$OpenBSD: xf86.4,v 1.4 1998/06/29 06:57:02 angelos Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1998 Matthieu Herrb
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. The name of the author may not be used to endorse or promote products
.\"    derived from this software without specific prior written permission
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd February 20, 1998
.Os OpenBSD 2.3
.Dt XF86 4 i386
.Sh NAME
.Nm xf86
.Nd
XFree86 aperture driver
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Cd "option APERTURE"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The 
.Pa /dev/xf86
driver provides access to the memory of a VGA board for
use by the XFree86 X servers 
when running with a kernel security level > 0 (ie. when using 
.Pa /dev/mem
is prohibited).
.Pp
Some X servers (
.Xr XF86_P9000 1 ,
.Xr XF86_Mach64 1 ,
.Xr XF86_AGX 1 ,
the Matrox driver in 
.Xr XF86_SVGA 1
)
require the use of this driver, while the other can make use of it if
it's available, but will work without it.
.Sh ACCESS CONTROL
Access to the 
.Pa /dev/xf86 
device is allowed when the sysctl variable
.Va machdep.allowaperture 
= 1. This variable (which default value is 0) 
can only be manipulated when the security level is <= 0, so it should be
set in 
.Pa /etc/sysctl.conf .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr XF86_Accel 1 ,
.Xr XF86_SVGA 1 ,
.\" XXX .Xr sysctl.conf 5 ,
.Xr config 8 ,
.Xr options 4,
.Xr sysctl 8 .
.Sh HISTORY
.Pa /dev/xf86 
was introduced as a loadable kernel module for NetBSD 0.9C
with XFree86 3.1. It was integrated as an in-kernel device on
.Ox 2.3 .
.Sh AUTHOR
The aperture driver was written by Matthieu Herrb.
.Sh BUGS
This driver allows access to all addresses above
.Va physmem . 
It should be restricted to the actual address range of the video
memory. 
