.\"	$OpenBSD: MAKEDEV.8,v 1.1 2003/09/02 21:33:16 miod Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, 2003 Miodrag Vallat.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"
.Dd September 2, 2003
.Dt MAKEDEV 8 mvme88k
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm MAKEDEV
.Nd create system and device special files
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm MAKEDEV
.Ar name
.Op Ar ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The shell script
.Nm MAKEDEV ,
found in the
.Pa /dev
directory, is used to create the common special files.
See
.Xr intro 4
for a more complete discussion of special files.
.Pp
.Nm MAKEDEV
takes any number of device names as arguments, where the names are
the common abbreviation for the device.
There are three special device names,
.Ar all ,
.Ar std
and
.Ar local .
If
given,
.Ar all
creates device files for all devices on the mvme88k.
If units are expected for a device,
.Nm MAKEDEV
will supply the standard numbers.
The
.Ar std
argument creates only the standard devices for the mvme88k.
Finally
.Ar local
is for devices specific to the local site, and executes the shell file
.Pa MAKEDEV.local .
.Pp
The mvme88k supports the following devices.
Where a device name is followed by a hash sign ("#"), the hash sign
must be replaced by a unit number.
.Pp
.Sy Pseudo\-names
.Bl -tag -width indent -compact
.It Ar all
All known devices for the mvme88k.
.It Ar std
The standard devices (console, drum, fd/*, klog, kmem, mem, null, stderr,
stdin, stdout, tty, zero).
.It Ar local
Configuration specific devices.
.El
.Pp
.Sy Device\-names
.Bl -tag -width indent -compact
.It Ar bpf#
Berkeley packet filters.
.It Ar cd#
SCSI CD-ROM drives.
.It Ar lkm
Loadable kernel modules.
.It Ar pty#
Set of 16 master and slave pseudo terminals.
.It Ar sd#
SCSI disk drives.
.It Ar st#
SCSI tape drives.
.It Ar tty#
Onboard Serial ports.
.It Ar vnd#
.Dq File
pseudo-disks.
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width /dev -compact
.It Pa /dev
The special file directory.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr intro 4 ,
.Xr config 8 ,
.Xr mknod 8
