.\"	$OpenBSD: MAKEDEV.8,v 1.3 2003/01/25 00:04:19 jmc Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001 Miodrag Vallat.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. The name of the author may not be used to endorse or promote products
.\"    derived from this software without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"
.Dd October 7, 2001
.Dt MAKEDEV 8 alpha
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm MAKEDEV
.Nd create system and device special files
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm MAKEDEV
.Ar name
.Op Ar ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The shell script
.Nm MAKEDEV ,
found in the
.Pa /dev
directory, is used to create the common special files.
See
.Xr intro 4
for a more complete discussion of special files.
.Pp
.Nm MAKEDEV
takes any number of device names as arguments, where the names are
the common abbreviation for the device.
There are four special device names,
.Ar all ,
.Ar std ,
.Ar local
and
.Ar wscons .
If
given,
.Ar all
creates device files for all devices on the alpha.
If units are expected for a device,
.Nm MAKEDEV
will supply the standard numbers.
The
.Ar std
argument creates only the standard devices for the alpha.
Finally
.Ar local
is for devices specific to the local site, and executes the shell file
.Pa MAKEDEV.local .
.Pp
The alpha supports the following devices.
Where a device name is followed by a hash sign ("#"), the hash sign
must be replaced by a unit number.
.Pp
.Sy Pseudo\-names
.Bl -tag -width wsmouse indent -compact
.It Ar all
All known devices for the alpha.
.It Ar std
The standard devices (console, drum, klog, kmem, ksyms, mem, null, stderr,
stdin, stdout, tty, zero).
.It Ar local
Configuration specific devices.
.It Ar wscons
All wscons-related devices.
.El
.Pp
.Sy Device\-names
.Bl -tag -width wsmouse indent -compact
.It Ar bpf#
Berkeley packet filters.
.It Ar cd#
SCSI CD-ROM drives.
.It Ar iop#
I2O devices.
.It Ar lkm
Loadable kernel modules.
.It Ar pty#
Set of 16 master and slave pseudo terminals.
.It Ar sd#
SCSI disk drives.
.It Ar st#
SCSI tape drives.
.It Ar tty#
Onboard Serial ports.
.It Ar ttyC#
Wscons console screens.
.It Ar vnd#
.Dq File
pseudo-disks.
.It Ar wskbd
Keyboard devices for wscons.
.It Ar wsmouse
Mouse devices for wscons.
.It Ar wsmux
Multiplexor devices for wscons.
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width /dev -compact
.It Pa /dev
The special file directory.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr intro 4 ,
.Xr config 8 ,
.Xr mknod 8
