.\" $OpenBSD: OPENSSL_init_ssl.3,v 1.2 2018/03/24 00:55:37 schwarze Exp $
.\" Copyright (c) 2018 Ingo Schwarze <schwarze@openbsd.org>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: March 24 2018 $
.Dt OPENSSL_INIT_SSL 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm OPENSSL_init_ssl
.Nd initialise the crypto and ssl libraries
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In openssl/ssl.h
.Ft int
.Fo OPENSSL_init_ssl
.Fa "uint64_t options"
.Fa "const void *dummy"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Fn OPENSSL_init_ssl
calls
.Xr OPENSSL_init_crypto 3
and also allocates various resources used internally by the ssl library.
.Pp
Calling it is never useful because it is automatically called
internally when needed.
.Pp
The
.Fa options
argument is passed on to
.Xr OPENSSL_init_crypto 3
and the
.Fa dummy
argument is ignored.
.Pp
If this function is called more than once,
none of the calls except the first one have any effect.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
.Fn OPENSSL_init_ssl
is intended to return 1 on success or 0 on error.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr CONF_modules_load_file 3 ,
.Xr OPENSSL_init_crypto 3
.Sh HISTORY
.Fn OPENSSL_init_ssl
first appeared in OpenSSL 1.1.0 and has been available since
.Ox 6.3 .
.Sh BUGS
.Fn OPENSSL_init_ssl
silently ignores even more configuration failures than
.Xr OPENSSL_init_crypto 3 .
