.\"	$OpenBSD: SSL_CTX_set_cipher_list.3,v 1.5 2018/03/21 05:07:04 schwarze Exp $
.\"	OpenSSL b97fdb57 Nov 11 09:33:09 2016 +0100
.\"
.\" This file was written by Lutz Jaenicke <jaenicke@openssl.org>.
.\" Copyright (c) 2000, 2001, 2013 The OpenSSL Project.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
.\"    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
.\"    distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this
.\"    software must display the following acknowledgment:
.\"    "This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project
.\"    for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit. (http://www.openssl.org/)"
.\"
.\" 4. The names "OpenSSL Toolkit" and "OpenSSL Project" must not be used to
.\"    endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\"    prior written permission. For written permission, please contact
.\"    openssl-core@openssl.org.
.\"
.\" 5. Products derived from this software may not be called "OpenSSL"
.\"    nor may "OpenSSL" appear in their names without prior written
.\"    permission of the OpenSSL Project.
.\"
.\" 6. Redistributions of any form whatsoever must retain the following
.\"    acknowledgment:
.\"    "This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project
.\"    for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit (http://www.openssl.org/)"
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE OpenSSL PROJECT ``AS IS'' AND ANY
.\" EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
.\" PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE OpenSSL PROJECT OR
.\" ITS CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
.\" SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
.\" LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
.\" STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED
.\" OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: March 21 2018 $
.Dt SSL_CTX_SET_CIPHER_LIST 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm SSL_CTX_set_cipher_list ,
.Nm SSL_set_cipher_list
.Nd choose list of available SSL_CIPHERs
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In openssl/ssl.h
.Ft int
.Fn SSL_CTX_set_cipher_list "SSL_CTX *ctx" "const char *str"
.Ft int
.Fn SSL_set_cipher_list "SSL *ssl" "const char *str"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Fn SSL_CTX_set_cipher_list
sets the list of available ciphers for
.Fa ctx
using the control string
.Fa str .
The format of the string is described
in
.Xr openssl 1 .
The list of ciphers is inherited by all
.Fa ssl
objects created from
.Fa ctx .
.Pp
.Fn SSL_set_cipher_list
sets the list of ciphers only for
.Fa ssl .
.Pp
The control string
.Fa str
should be universally usable and not depend on details of the library
configuration (ciphers compiled in).
Thus no syntax checking takes place.
Items that are not recognized, because the corresponding ciphers are not
compiled in or because they are mistyped, are simply ignored.
Failure is only flagged if no ciphers could be collected at all.
.Pp
It should be noted that inclusion of a cipher to be used into the list is a
necessary condition.
On the client side, the inclusion into the list is also sufficient.
On the server side, additional restrictions apply.
All ciphers have additional requirements.
ADH ciphers don't need a certificate, but DH-parameters must have been set.
All other ciphers need a corresponding certificate and key.
.Pp
A RSA cipher can only be chosen when a RSA certificate is available.
RSA ciphers using DHE need a certificate and key and additional DH-parameters
(see
.Xr SSL_CTX_set_tmp_dh_callback 3 ) .
.Pp
A DSA cipher can only be chosen when a DSA certificate is available.
DSA ciphers always use DH key exchange and therefore need DH-parameters (see
.Xr SSL_CTX_set_tmp_dh_callback 3 ) .
.Pp
When these conditions are not met for any cipher in the list (for example, a
client only supports export RSA ciphers with an asymmetric key length of 512
bits and the server is not configured to use temporary RSA keys), the
.Dq no shared cipher
.Pq Dv SSL_R_NO_SHARED_CIPHER
error is generated and the handshake will fail.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
.Fn SSL_CTX_set_cipher_list
and
.Fn SSL_set_cipher_list
return 1 if any cipher could be selected and 0 on complete failure.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr ssl 3 ,
.Xr SSL_CTX_set1_groups 3 ,
.Xr SSL_CTX_set_tmp_dh_callback 3 ,
.Xr SSL_CTX_use_certificate 3 ,
.Xr SSL_get_ciphers 3
.Sh HISTORY
.Fn SSL_CTX_set_cipher_list
and
.Fn SSL_set_cipher_list
appeared before SSLeay 0.8 and have been available since
.Ox 2.4 .
