.\"	$OpenBSD: SSL_library_init.3,v 1.6 2018/03/27 17:35:50 schwarze Exp $
.\"	OpenSSL b97fdb57 Nov 11 09:33:09 2016 +0100
.\"
.\" This file was written by Lutz Jaenicke <jaenicke@openssl.org>.
.\" Copyright (c) 2000, 2006, 2010 The OpenSSL Project.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
.\"    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
.\"    distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this
.\"    software must display the following acknowledgment:
.\"    "This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project
.\"    for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit. (http://www.openssl.org/)"
.\"
.\" 4. The names "OpenSSL Toolkit" and "OpenSSL Project" must not be used to
.\"    endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\"    prior written permission. For written permission, please contact
.\"    openssl-core@openssl.org.
.\"
.\" 5. Products derived from this software may not be called "OpenSSL"
.\"    nor may "OpenSSL" appear in their names without prior written
.\"    permission of the OpenSSL Project.
.\"
.\" 6. Redistributions of any form whatsoever must retain the following
.\"    acknowledgment:
.\"    "This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project
.\"    for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit (http://www.openssl.org/)"
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE OpenSSL PROJECT ``AS IS'' AND ANY
.\" EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
.\" PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE OpenSSL PROJECT OR
.\" ITS CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
.\" SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
.\" LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
.\" STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED
.\" OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: March 27 2018 $
.Dt SSL_LIBRARY_INIT 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm SSL_library_init ,
.Nm OpenSSL_add_ssl_algorithms ,
.Nm SSLeay_add_ssl_algorithms
.Nd initialize SSL library by registering algorithms
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In openssl/ssl.h
.Ft int
.Fn SSL_library_init void
.Ft int
.Fn OpenSSL_add_ssl_algorithms void
.Ft int
.Fn SSLeay_add_ssl_algorithms void
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Fn SSL_library_init
registers the available SSL/TLS ciphers and digests.
.Pp
.Fn OpenSSL_add_ssl_algorithms
and
.Fn SSLeay_add_ssl_algorithms
are synonyms for
.Fn SSL_library_init
and are implemented as macros.
.Pp
.Fn SSL_library_init
must be called before any other action takes place.
.Fn SSL_library_init
is not reentrant.
.Pp
.Fn SSL_library_init
adds ciphers and digests used directly and indirectly by SSL/TLS.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
.Fn SSL_library_init
always returns 1, so it is safe to discard the return value.
.Sh EXAMPLES
A typical TLS/SSL application will start with the library initialization, and
provide readable error messages.
.Bd -literal
SSL_load_error_strings();                /* readable error messages */
SSL_library_init();                      /* initialize library */
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr RAND_add 3 ,
.Xr ssl 3 ,
.Xr SSL_load_error_strings 3
.Sh HISTORY
.Fn SSLeay_add_ssl_algorithms
first appeared in SSLeay 0.8.0 and has been available since
.Ox 2.4 .
.Pp
.Fn SSL_library_init
first appeared in OpenSSL 0.9.2b and has been available since
.Ox 2.6 .
.Pp
.Fn OpenSSL_add_ssl_algorithms
first appeared in OpenSSL 0.9.5 and has been available since
.Ox 2.7 .
