.\"	$OpenBSD: SSL_CTX_set_min_proto_version.3,v 1.1 2017/08/19 23:45:10 schwarze Exp $
.\"	OpenSSL e9b77246 Jan 20 19:58:49 2017 +0100
.\"
.\" This file was written by Kurt Roeckx <kurt@roeckx.be>.
.\" Copyright (c) 2015 The OpenSSL Project.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
.\"    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
.\"    distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this
.\"    software must display the following acknowledgment:
.\"    "This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project
.\"    for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit. (http://www.openssl.org/)"
.\"
.\" 4. The names "OpenSSL Toolkit" and "OpenSSL Project" must not be used to
.\"    endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\"    prior written permission. For written permission, please contact
.\"    openssl-core@openssl.org.
.\"
.\" 5. Products derived from this software may not be called "OpenSSL"
.\"    nor may "OpenSSL" appear in their names without prior written
.\"    permission of the OpenSSL Project.
.\"
.\" 6. Redistributions of any form whatsoever must retain the following
.\"    acknowledgment:
.\"    "This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project
.\"    for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit (http://www.openssl.org/)"
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE OpenSSL PROJECT ``AS IS'' AND ANY
.\" EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
.\" PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE OpenSSL PROJECT OR
.\" ITS CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
.\" SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
.\" LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
.\" STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED
.\" OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: August 19 2017 $
.Dt SSL_CTX_SET_MIN_PROTO_VERSION 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm SSL_CTX_set_min_proto_version ,
.Nm SSL_CTX_set_max_proto_version ,
.Nm SSL_set_min_proto_version ,
.Nm SSL_set_max_proto_version
.Nd set minimum and maximum supported protocol version
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In openssl/ssl.h
.Ft int
.Fo SSL_CTX_set_min_proto_version
.Fa "SSL_CTX *ctx"
.Fa "uint16_t version"
.Fc
.Ft int
.Fo SSL_CTX_set_max_proto_version
.Fa "SSL_CTX *ctx"
.Fa "uint16_t version"
.Fc
.Ft int
.Fo SSL_set_min_proto_version
.Fa "SSL *ssl"
.Fa "uint16_t version"
.Fc
.Ft int
.Fo SSL_set_max_proto_version
.Fa "SSL *ssl"
.Fa "uint16_t version"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
These functions set the minimum and maximum supported protocol
versions for
.Fa ctx
or
.Fa ssl .
This works in combination with the options set via
.Xr SSL_CTX_set_options 3
that also make it possible to disable specific protocol versions.
Use these functions instead of disabling specific protocol versions.
.Pp
Setting the minimum or maximum version to 0 will enable protocol
versions down to the lowest or up to the highest version supported
by the library, respectively.
.Pp
Currently supported versions are
.Sy TLS1_VERSION ,
.Sy TLS1_1_VERSION ,
and
.Sy TLS1_2_VERSION
for TLS and
.Sy DTLS1_VERSION
for DTLS.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
These functions return 1 on success or 0 on failure.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr ssl 3 ,
.Xr SSL_CTX_new 3 ,
.Xr SSL_CTX_set_options 3
.Sh HISTORY
These functions first appeared in OpenSSL 1.1.0
and have been available since
.Ox 6.2 .
