.\"	$OpenBSD: SSL_pending.3,v 1.2 2016/12/04 12:26:05 schwarze Exp $
.\"	OpenSSL a528d4f0 Oct 27 13:40:11 2015 -0400
.\"
.\" This file was written by Lutz Jaenicke <jaenicke@openssl.org>,
.\" Bodo Moeller <bodo@openssl.org>, and Matt Caswell <matt@openssl.org>.
.\" Copyright (c) 2000, 2005, 2015, 2016 The OpenSSL Project.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
.\"    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
.\"    distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this
.\"    software must display the following acknowledgment:
.\"    "This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project
.\"    for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit. (http://www.openssl.org/)"
.\"
.\" 4. The names "OpenSSL Toolkit" and "OpenSSL Project" must not be used to
.\"    endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\"    prior written permission. For written permission, please contact
.\"    openssl-core@openssl.org.
.\"
.\" 5. Products derived from this software may not be called "OpenSSL"
.\"    nor may "OpenSSL" appear in their names without prior written
.\"    permission of the OpenSSL Project.
.\"
.\" 6. Redistributions of any form whatsoever must retain the following
.\"    acknowledgment:
.\"    "This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project
.\"    for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit (http://www.openssl.org/)"
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE OpenSSL PROJECT ``AS IS'' AND ANY
.\" EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
.\" PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE OpenSSL PROJECT OR
.\" ITS CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
.\" SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
.\" LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
.\" STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED
.\" OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: December 4 2016 $
.Dt SSL_PENDING 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm SSL_pending
.Nd obtain number of readable bytes buffered in an SSL object
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In openssl/ssl.h
.Ft int
.Fn SSL_pending "const SSL *ssl"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Data is received in whole blocks known as records from the peer.
A whole record is processed, for example decrypted, in one go and
is buffered until it is read by the application via a call to
.Xr SSL_read 3 .
.Pp
.Fn SSL_pending
returns the number of bytes which are available inside
.Fa ssl
for immediate read.
.Pp
.Fn SSL_pending
takes into account only bytes from the TLS/SSL record that is
currently being processed (if any).
If the
.Fa ssl->read_ahead
flag is set (see
.Xr SSL_CTX_set_read_ahead 3 ) ,
additional protocol bytes beyond the current record may have been
read containing more TLS/SSL records.
This also applies to DTLS.
These additional bytes will be buffered but will remain unprocessed
until they are needed.
As these bytes are still in an unprocessed state,
.Fn SSL_pending
will ignore them.
Therefore it is possible for no more bytes to be readable from the
underlying BIO (because the library has already read them) and for
.Fn SSL_pending
to return 0, even though readable application data bytes are available
(because the data is in unprocessed buffered records).
.Sh RETURN VALUES
.Fn SSL_pending
returns the number of buffered and processed application data
bytes that are pending and are available for immediate read.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr ssl 3 ,
.Xr SSL_CTX_set_read_ahead 3 ,
.Xr SSL_read 3
.Sh BUGS
Up to OpenSSL 0.9.6,
.Fn SSL_pending
did not check if the record type of pending data is application data.
