.\"     $OpenBSD: intro.4,v 1.5 1998/09/08 01:30:38 jason Exp $
.\"	$NetBSD: intro.4,v 1.5 1998/02/06 06:07:00 perry Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1996 Jonathan Stone.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"      This product includes software developed by Jonathan Stone.
.\" 3. The name of the author may not be used to endorse or promote products
.\"    derived from this software without specific prior written permission
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"
.Dd August 13, 1997
.Dt INTRO 4 sparc
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm intro
.Nd introduction to special files and hardware support
.Sh DESCRIPTION
This section describes the special files, related driver functions,
and networking support
available in the system.
In this part of the manual, the
.Tn SYNOPSIS
section of
each configurable device gives a sample specification
for use in constructing a system description for the
.Xr config 8
program.
The
.Tn DIAGNOSTICS
section lists messages which may appear on the console
and/or in the system error log
.Pa /var/log/messages
due to errors in device operation;
see
.Xr syslogd 8
for more information.
.Pp
This section contains both devices
which may be configured into the system
and network related information.
The networking support is introduced in
.Xr netintro 4 .
.Sh DEVICE SUPPORT
This section describes the hardware supported on the SPARC
platform.
Software support for these devices comes in two forms.  A hardware
device may be supported with a character or block
.Em device driver ,
or it may be used within the networking subsystem and have a
.Em network interface driver .
Block and character devices are accessed through files in the file
system of a special type; see
.Xr mknod 8 .
Network interfaces are indirectly accessed through the interprocess
communication facilities provided by the system; see
.Xr socket 2 .
.Pp
A hardware device is identified to the system at configuration time
and the appropriate device or network interface driver is then compiled
into the system.  When the resultant system is booted, the
autoconfiguration facilities in the system probe for the device
and, if found, enable the software support for it.
If a device does not respond at autoconfiguration
time it is not accessible at any time afterwards.
To enable a device which did not autoconfigure,
the system must be rebooted.
.Pp
The autoconfiguration system is described in
.Xr autoconf 4 .
A list of the supported devices is given below.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr autoconf 4 ,
.Xr config 8
.Sh SUPPORTED SYSTEMS
The following Sun SPARC system architectures and models are supported:
.Bl -tag -width speaker
.It sun4
first generation SPARC systems on VMEbus:
.br
Sun 4/100 series (14.28 MHz)
.br
Sun 4/200 series (16.67 MHz)
.br
Sun 4/300 series (25 MHz)
.It sun4c
desktop SPARC systems with SBus:
.br
SPARCstation 1 (20 MHz)
.br
SPARCstation 1+ (25 MHz)
.br
SPARCstation 2 (40 MHz)
.br
SPARCstation SLC (20 MHz)
.br
SPARCstation ELC (33 MHz)
.br
SPARCstation IPC (25 MHz)
.br
SPARCstation IPX (40 MHz).
.It sun4m
desktop SPARC systems with Mbus for CPUs, and SBus:
.br
SPARC Classic (50 Mhz microSPARC I)
.br
SPARC LX (50 MHz microSPARC I)
.br
SPARCstation 4 (70 Mhz microSPARC II)
.br
SPARCstation 5 (70, 85, 110 MHz microSPARC II)
.br
SPARCstation 5 (170 MHz TurboSPARC)
.br
SPARCstation 10M (36 MHz SuperSPARC I)
.br
SPARCstation 20M (50 MHz SuperSPARC I)
.br
SPARCstation 10 (Mbus modules)
.br
SPARCstation 20 (Mbus modules)
.El
.Pp
The SPARCstation 2 and IPX can be upgraded with a Weitek PowerUP CPU
that is clock-doubled (i.e. internally it runs at 80 MHz).
.Ox
supports this configuration.
.Pp
Hardware level clones of these systems from other manufacturers
will likely work (e.g. Xerox, Tatung, Axil, Cycle);
other systems which have a SPARC CPU but do not
use Sun's hardware architecture (e.g. Solbourne) will likely not work.
.Pp
The Sun 4/400 series, sun4d (SPARC Center 1000, 1000E, and 2000),
and sun4u (UltraSPARC) architectures are not yet supported.
.Pp
The sun4m architecture with Mbus modules for the CPUs is supported
with the following modules with only one CPU:
.Bl -tag -width speaker
.It SM41
40 Mhz SuperSPARC I with 1MB SuperCACHE
.It SM51
50 Mhz SuperSPARC I with 1MB SuperCACHE
.It SM61
60 Mhz SuperSPARC I with 1MB SuperCACHE
.It SM71
75 Mhz SuperSPARC II with 1MB SuperCACHE
.El
.Pp
.Ox
does not yet support multiprocessor systems.
.Sh LIST OF DEVICES
The devices listed below are supported in this incarnation of
the system.  Devices are indicated by their functional interface.
Not all supported devices are listed.
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width le/lebuffer
.It audioamd
AMD 79C30 obio (sun4c) audio controller
.It be
10BaseT/100BaseTX SBus Ethernet controller
.It bwtwo
black and white obio frame buffer
.It cgeight
24 bit VMEbus color frame buffer
.It cgfour
8 bit obio (sun4 P4 bus) color graphics frame buffer
.It cgfourteen
24 bit SBus color frame buffer
.It cgsix
8 bit obio (sun4c & sun4m), SBus color graphics frame buffer
.It cgthree
8 bit VMEbus, SBus, and obio (sun4m) color graphics frame buffer
.It cgtwo
8 bit VMEbus color frame buffer
.It eeprom
Sun non-volatile configuration RAM driver
.It esp
NCR53C90 ESP100 (Sun 4/300), 
.br
ESP100A (sun4c),
.br
ESP200 (sun4m) SCSI controller,
.br
FSBE/S (X1053A, part # 501-2015) Fast SCSI-2/Buffered Ethernet SBus controller
.It fd
Intel 82072 obio (sun4c) or Intel 82077 obio (sun4m)
floppy disk drive controller
.It hme
SBus HME Ethernet controllers (SunSwift and Sun QuadFastEthernet)
.It ie
Intel 82586 Ethernet controller (Sun 4/100)
.It isp
Qlogic ISP SBus SCSI controller
.It kbd
Sun type 2, type 3, type 4, and type 5 keyboards (on zs)
.It le/lebuffer
AMD 7990 LANCE ethernet controller (Sun 4/200, 4/300, sun4c, sun4m, SBus)
.It magma
Magma serial/parallel communication boards
.It ms
Sun mouse (on zs)
.It openprom
Sun Open boot PROM (what became IEEE 1275) configuration driver
.It qec
Supported as a carrier for the
.Nm be
controller.
.It si
NCR5380 "SCSI-2" VMEbus (Sun 4/200, Sun 4/400) SCSI controller
.It sw
NCR5380 obio (Sun 4/100) "SCSI Wierd" SCSI controller
.It tcx
8 or 24 bit SBus color graphics frame buffer
.It xd
Xylogics 753/7053 VMEbus SMD disk controller
.It xy
Xylogics 450/451 VMEbus SMD disk controller
.It zs
Zilog 8530 serial controller
.El
.Sh UNSUPPORTED DEVICES
.Pp
The following devices are not supported, due to unavailability of
either documentation or sample hardware:
.Bl -tag -width speaker
.It audiocs
CS4231 based audio found in some sun4c and sun4m models
.It bpp
Bi-directional Parallel port
.It dbri
Dual Basic Rate Interface (BRI) ISDN (SPARC LX & SPARCstation 10)
.It audio
sun4m audio that is dependent on the dbri
.It power
sun4m power management is recognized but unused
.El
.Sh HISTORY
The
sparc
.Nm 
first appeared with
.Ox 2.3 .
