.\"     $OpenBSD: scf.4,v 1.3 2002/10/01 21:02:19 miod Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1999 Jason L. Wright (jason@thought.net)
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This software was developed by Jason L. Wright under contract with
.\" RTMX Incorporated (http://www.rtmx.com).
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"      This product includes software developed by Jason L. Wright for
.\"	 RTMX Incorporated.
.\" 4. The name of the author may not be used to endorse or promote products
.\"    derived from this software without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
.\" DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT,
.\" INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
.\" (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
.\" SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
.\" STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN
.\" ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
.\" POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd July 25, 1999
.Dt SCF 4 sparc
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm scf
.Nd SPARC Force sysconfig driver
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Cd "scf0 at mainbus0"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
driver provides access to the system configuration registers on
the Force CPU-5.
The system configuration registers control the LED display on
the front panel, the status of the rotary switch, and the flash
programming control registers.
.Pp
By setting the
.Xr sysctl 8
value
.Ar machdep.led_blink
to a non-zero value, the two user LEDs will blink back and forth
at a rate of 1 second per point of load average.
The seven segment LED will also show a numeric value for the load
average (in hex), and with load averages higher than 15, the decimal
point will be lit.
.Sh IOCTLS
The
.Nm
device responds to the following
.Xr ioctl 2
calls defined in
.Aq Pa machine/scfio.h :
.Bl -tag -width
.It Dv SCFIOCSLED1
.Pq Li "u_int8_t"
Set LED1 register based on the bits below.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
#define SCF_LED_COLOR_MASK      0x03    /* color bits */
#define SCF_LED_COLOR_OFF       0x00    /* led off */
#define SCF_LED_COLOR_GREEN     0x01    /* green led */
#define SCF_LED_COLOR_RED       0x02    /* red led */
#define SCF_LED_COLOR_YELLOW    0x03    /* yellow led */
#define SCF_LED_BLINK_MASK      0x0c    /* blink bits */
#define SCF_LED_BLINK_NONE      0x00    /* steady led */
#define SCF_LED_BLINK_HALF      0x04    /* blink 1/2 hz */
#define SCF_LED_BLINK_ONE       0x08    /* blink 1 hz */
#define SCF_LED_BLINK_TWO       0x0c    /* blink 2 hz */
.Ed
.It Dv SCFIOCGLED1
.Pq Li "u_int8_t"
Retrieve the value of the LED1 register (bits defined above).
.It Dv SCFIOCSLED2
.Pq Li "u_int8_t"
Set the value of the LED2 register (bits defined above).
.It Dv SCFIOCGLED2
.Pq Li "u_int8_t"
Retrieve the value of the LED2 register (bits defined above).
.It Dv SCFIOCSLED7
.Pq Li "u_int8_t"
Set the value of the 7-segment LED based on the bits below:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
#define SCF_7LED_A              0x01    /* Layout:      */
#define SCF_7LED_B              0x02    /*      AAA     */
#define SCF_7LED_C              0x04    /*     FF BB    */
#define SCF_7LED_D              0x08    /*      GGG     */
#define SCF_7LED_E              0x10    /*     EE CC    */
#define SCF_7LED_F              0x20    /*      DDD  P  */
#define SCF_7LED_G              0x40
#define SCF_7LED_P              0x80
.Ed
.It Dv SCFIOCGROT
.Pq Li "u_int8_t"
Retrieve the value of the 16 position rotary switch on the front panel.
.It Dv SCFIOSFMCTRL
.Pq Li "u_int8_t"
Set up the flash memory for writing based on the bits below:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
#define SCF_FMCTRL_SELROM       0x01    /* sel 1st/2nd device */
#define SCF_FMCTRL_SELBOOT      0x02    /* sel boot/user flash */
#define SCF_FMCTRL_WRITEV       0x04    /* write voltage */
#define SCF_FMCTRL_SELADDR      0x38    /* addr 21:19 bits */
.Ed
.Pp
The SCF_FMCTRL_SELROM
bit, if clear, selects the first flash device, otherwise the second
flash device is selected.
The
.Ar SCF_FMCTRL_SELBOOT
bit, if set selects the user flash, otherwise the boot flash is selected.
Setting the
.Ar SCF_FMCTRL_WRITEV
bit, turns on the write voltage.
The
.Ar SCF_FMCTRL_SELADDR
bits determine which window of 512 KBytes is active for reading/writing.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr ioctl 2 ,
.Xr intro 4 ,
.Xr sysctl 8
.Sh HISTORY
.Ox
support for the
.Nm
first appeared in
.Ox 2.6 .
.Sh AUTHORS
The driver for the
.Nm
was written by
.An Jason L. Wright Aq jason@thought.net
under contract with RTMX Incorporated.
