.\"     $OpenBSD: spif.4,v 1.8 2002/10/01 21:02:19 miod Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1999 Jason L. Wright (jason@thought.net)
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"      This product includes software developed by Jason L. Wright
.\" 4. The name of the author may not be used to endorse or promote products
.\"    derived from this software without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
.\" DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT,
.\" INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
.\" (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
.\" SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
.\" STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN
.\" ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
.\" POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd February 4, 1999
.Dt SPIF 4 sparc
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm spif
.Nd SBus (spiffy) Serial/Parallel Interface
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Cd "spif* at sbus? slot ? offset ?                " Pq "sun4c/sun4m"
.Cd "stty* at spif?                                " Pq "sun4c/sun4m"
.Cd "sbpp* at spif?                                " Pq "sun4c/sun4m"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm spif
driver provides support for the Sun Serial/Parallel Interface card
(Sun part number 501-1931)
based around the
Cirrus Logic CD180 octal serial controller
and the
Cirrus Logic PPC2 parallel port controller.
.Pp
The device minor numbers for this driver are encoded as follows:
.Pp
.Bd -literal
    +---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+
    | 7 | 6 | 5 | 4 | 3 | 2 | 1 | 0 |
    +---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+
      |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |
      |   |   |   |   |   +---+---+---> port number
      |   |   |   |   |
      |   |   |   |   +---------------> unused
      |   |   |   |
      |   |   |   +-------------------> dialout (on tty ports)
      |   |   |
      |   |   +-----------------------> unused
      |   |
      +---+---------------------------> card number
.Ed
.Pp
Up to four cards are supported in the system.
.Pp
Each of the serial ports has an 8 byte FIFO for receive and transmit as
well as automatic hardware (RTS/CTS) flow control.
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
.Bl -diag
.It "spif%d: ccr timeout"
A timeout occurred while writing to one of the CD180 registers.
.It "stty%d-%d: ring overflow"
Incoming characters were discarded because the application
in control of the device did not read the input fast enough.
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width /dev/tty[jkl][0-7] -compact
.It /dev/tty[jkl][0-7]
Serial ports
.It /dev/sbpp[0-3]
Parallel ports
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr intro 4 ,
.Xr sbus 4 ,
.Xr tty 4
.Sh AUTHORS
The driver was written by
.An Jason Wright Aq jason@thought.net ,
and is heavily based on the
.Xr magma 4
driver written by
.An Iain Hibbert Ar plunky@skate.demon.co.uk .
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm spif
driver was first supported in
.Ox 2.5 .
.Sh TODO
The parallel port is not supported yet.
.Pp
Dialout (cua) devices are not yet supported.
