.\"	$OpenBSD: zs.4,v 1.16 2004/09/30 19:59:27 mickey Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1998, 2002 The OpenBSD Project
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\"
.Dd December 3, 2002
.Dt ZS 4 sparc
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm zs
.Nd Zilog 8530 (ZSCC) serial communications driver
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Cd "zs0 at mainbus0                      " Pq sun4c
.Cd "zs0 at obio0                         " Pq sun4m
.Cd "zs0 at obio0 addr 0xf1000000 level 12" Pq sun4/[23]00
.Cd "zs0 at obio0 addr 0x01000000 level 12" Pq sun4/100
.Cd "zs1 at mainbus0                      " Pq sun4c
.Cd "zs1 at obio0                         " Pq sun4m
.Cd "zs1 at obio0 addr 0xf0000000 level 12" Pq sun4/[23]00
.Cd "zs1 at obio0 addr 0x00000000 level 12" Pq sun4/100
.Cd "zs2 at obio0 addr 0xe0000000 level 12" Pq sun4/300
.Cd "zstty* at zs?"
.Cd "zskbd* at zs?"
.Cd "wskbd* at zskbd?"
.Cd "option SUNKBD_LAYOUT=XXX"
.Cd "option SUNKBD5_LAYOUT=XXX"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
is a Zilog 8530 serial interface chip used in
.Tn Sun
workstations.
The Zilog 8530 provides two input/output channels per instance.
Most
.Tn Sun
workstations include two of these interfaces.
One of the interfaces is hardwired for use by the keyboard and mouse
attached to the workstation console.
The
.Nm zskbd
devices connect keyboard devices to the generic keyboard driver
.Nm wskbd .
The remaining additional
.Nm zs
interfaces provide RS-423
and RS-232 serial ports for general purpose use.
.Pp
The
.Nm
driver supports all of the standard
.Xr tty 4
ioctl calls.
The status of the DTR, RTS, CTS, and DCD signals can be queried with
TIOCMGET command, but, due to limitations in the hardware,
only the DTR and RTS signals can be modified with TIOCMSET, TIOCMBIC,
and TIOCMBIS
.Xr ioctl 2
commands.
.Pp
The
.Nm zskbd
driver supports a number of different key mappings.
By default, the layout corresponding to the keyboard model
as probed by the
.Nm zskbd
driver will be used.
A different layout can be chosen either with the kernel options
.Dq SUNKBD_LAYOUT
(for type 4 keyboards)
and
.Dq SUNKBD5_LAYOUT
(for type 5 keyboards)
at compile time or with the utility
.Xr wsconsctl 8
(variable:
.Dq keyboard.encoding
) at runtime.
.Pp
Other mappings can be used if the whole keymap is replaced by means of
.Xr wsconsctl 8 .
The built-in mappings are at this time:
.Bl -hang
.It KB_BE
(
.Dq be
) Belgium French (type 4 only).
.It KB_DE
(
.Dq de
) German.
.It KB_DK
(
.Dq dk
) Danish.
.It KB_ES
(
.Dq es
) Spanish.
.It KB_FR
(
.Dq fr
) French (type 5 only).
.It KB_IT
(
.Dq it
) Italian.
.It KB_JP
(
.Dq jp
) Japanese (type 5 only).
.It KB_NL
(
.Dq \&nl
) Dutch.
.It KB_NO
(
.Dq no
) Norwegian.
.It KB_PT
(
.Dq pt
) Portuguese.
.It KB_SF
(
.Dq sf
) Swiss French.
.It KB_SG
(
.Dq sg
) Swiss German.
.It KB_SV
(
.Dq sv
) Swedish with
.Dq dead accents .
.It KB_UK
(
.Dq uk
) British.
.It KB_US
(
.Dq us
) English / US keyboard mapping.
.El
.Pp
The KB_SV mapping can be used in
the KB_NODEAD (
.Dq .nodead
) variant.
This switches off the
.Dq dead accents .
.Sh EXAMPLES
To set a German keyboard layout, use
.Ic wsconsctl -w keyboard.encoding=de .
To set it at kernel build time, add
.Em option SUNKBD_LAYOUT="KB_DE"
to the kernel configuration file for a type 4 keyboard, or
.Em option SUNKBD5_LAYOUT="KB_DE"
for a type 5 keyboard.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr ioctl 2 ,
.Xr intro 4 ,
.Xr tty 4 ,
.Xr wskbd 4 ,
.Xr wsconsctl 8
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
driver first appeared in
.Bx 4.4 .
Support for the TIOCM*
.Xr ioctl 2 Ns s
appeared in
.Ox 2.3 .
.Sh BUGS
The
.Nm
driver now supports cua minor devices, but with this known deficiency
in the simultaneous outgoing/incoming aspect of the driver:
The first outgoing connection succeeds, but second and subsequent
connections fail, apparently due to a getty hang.
The hung getty apparently prevents the cua device from being re-opened.
.Pp
The kernel does not provide a keyboard layout for all manufactured
.Tn Sun
keyboard models.
