.\"	$OpenBSD: ami.4,v 1.27 2005/12/20 09:16:27 jmc Exp $
.\"
.\" Michael Shalayeff, 2001. Public Domain.
.\"
.Dd February 27, 2004
.Dt AMI 4
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm ami
.Nd American Megatrends Inc. MegaRAID Controllers
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Cd "ami* at pci?"
.Cd "scsibus* at ami?"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
driver provides support for the MegaRAID family of RAID controllers,
including:
.Pp
.Bl -dash -offset indent -compact
.It
Dell CERC-PATA,
PERC 2/DC,
PERC 3/DC,
PERC 3/DCL,
PERC 3/QC,
PERC 3/SC,
PERC 4/DC,
PERC 4/SC,
PERC 4/Di,
PERC 4e/Di,
PERC 4/Si
.It
Hewlett-Packard 438,
466,
T[567]
.It
LSI/AMI/Symbios MegaRAID,
MegaRAID 320,
MegaRAID 320-1,
MegaRAID 320-2E,
MegaRAID i4,
523 SATA,
MegaRAID 150-4,
MegaRAID 150-6,
MegaRAID 300-8x
.El
.Pp
These controllers support RAID 0, RAID 1, RAID 5, JBOD,
and superpositions of those configurations.
.Pp
Some cards support both I2O and a so-called
.Sq Mass Storage
mode of operation.
This driver only supports the
.Sq Mass Storage
mode; I2O mode is supported
by the
.Xr iop 4
driver.
However it is recommended to use these cards in
.Sq Mass Storage
mode.
.Pp
Although the controllers are actual RAID controllers,
the driver makes them look just like SCSI controllers.
All RAID configuration is done through the controllers' BIOSes.
.Pp
The management interface is provided through the
.Xr bio 4
device or one of the daughter
.Xr sd 4
devices as implemented in the
.Xr bioctl 8
utility.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr bio 4 ,
.Xr intro 4 ,
.Xr iop 4 ,
.Xr pci 4 ,
.Xr scsi 4 ,
.Xr sd 4 ,
.Xr bioctl 8
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
driver first appeared in
.Ox 2.9 .
.Sh AUTHORS
.An -nosplit
The
.Nm
driver was written by
.An Michael Shalayeff Aq mickey@openbsd.org .
.Pp
Management functions were implemented by
.An Marco Peereboom Aq marco@openbsd.org .
