.\"	$OpenBSD: asmc.4,v 1.3 2015/12/12 12:43:54 jung Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2015 Joerg Jung <jung@openbsd.org>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: December 12 2015 $
.Dt ASMC 4
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm asmc
.Nd Apple System Management Controller (SMC)
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Cd "asmc0 at isa? port 0x300"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
driver provides support for the Apple System Management Controller (SMC), as
found in Intel based Apple devices.
.Pp
The driver possesses a collection of temperature, fan, light, and acceleration
sensor values which are made available through the
.Xr sysctl 8
interface.
.Pp
If available, the keyboard backlight is enabled by the driver and can be
adjusted using the
.Xr wsconsctl 8
variable
.Va keyboard.backlight .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr intro 4 ,
.Xr isa 4 ,
.Xr sensorsd 8 ,
.Xr sysctl 8 ,
.Xr wsconsctl 8
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
driver first appeared in
.Ox 5.9 .
.Sh AUTHORS
.An -nosplit
The
.Nm
driver was written by
.An Joerg Jung Aq Mt jung@openbsd.org .
.Sh CAVEATS
Light sensor values may not be available on older products.
.Pp
Acceleration sensors are not available and the associated interrupt handling is
not implemented.
.Pp
Besides the sensors, the huge amount of other functions and information
available from the SMC is not supported.
