.\"	$OpenBSD: atapiscsi.4,v 1.3 1999/11/14 20:23:27 deraadt Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1999 Constantine Sapuntzakis.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"

.Dd July 25, 1999
.Dt ATAPISCSI 4
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm atapiscsi
.Nd ATAPI<->SCSI adapter
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Cd "atapiscsi* at wdc? channel ?"
.Cd "atapiscsi* at pciide? channel ?"
.Cd "scsibus* at atapiscsi?"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The 
.Nm
driver supports ATAPI (also called IDE) devices such as CD-ROMs, ZIP drives,
floppy drives, and (eventually) tape drives.  All ATAPI devices talk some
subset of the SCSI protocol. For example, the SCSI 
.Xr cd 4 ,
.Xr sd 4 ,
and
.Xr st 4
drivers are able to sucessfully control the corresponding ATAPI devices.
.Pp
The
.Nm
driver acts like a SCSI adapter.  Thus, the ATAPI devices connected to
the system will appear as SCSI devices.
.Pp
For performance reasons, one should avoid putting an ATAPI device and
a hard disk on the same cable.  The driver does not support bus release
and, even if it did, many ATAPI devices do not support it. There is
only one command outstanding on a cable at a time. For example, if a
hard disk and a CD drive are placed on the same cable, the hard disk
requests may get queued behind slower CD operations.
.Sh BUGS
Tape devices don't work yet.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr intro 4 ,
.Xr pciide 4 ,
.Xr scsi 4 ,
.Xr wdc 4 ,
.Xr cd 4 ,
.Xr st 4 ,
.Xr sd 4 
