.\"	$OpenBSD: bmtphy.4,v 1.5 2005/02/05 04:39:54 brad Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2000 Theo de Raadt
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
.\" DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT,
.\" INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
.\" (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
.\" SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
.\" STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN
.\" ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
.\" POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd April 10, 2001
.Dt BMTPHY 4
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm bmtphy
.Nd Broadcom Mini-Theta Ethernet PHY driver
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Cd "bmtphy* at mii?"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
driver supports the Broadcom Mini-Theta BCM5201 and BCM5202 10/100
Ethernet PHYs and their derivatives such as BCM5214, BCM5221, BCM5222,
and BCM4401.
It also supports the internal PHY on the 3Com 3C905C-TX 10/100 Ethernet
interface, and the internal PHY on some 3Com 3C905B-TX 10/100 Ethernet
interfaces.
These PHYs are found on a variety of high-performance Ethernet interfaces.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr exphy 4 ,
.Xr ifmedia 4 ,
.Xr intro 4 ,
.Xr mii 4 ,
.Xr ifconfig 8
