.\" $OpenBSD: bwfm.4,v 1.8 2018/07/15 10:44:49 phessler Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2017 Patrick Wildt <patrick@blueri.se>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: July 15 2018 $
.Dt BWFM 4
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm bwfm
.Nd Broadcom and Cypress IEEE 802.11a/ac/b/g/n wireless network device
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Cd "bwfm* at pci?"
.Cd "bwfm* at sdmmc?"
.Cd "bwfm* at usb?"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
driver provides support for Broadcom and Cypress FullMAC network
adapters.
.Pp
These are the modes the
.Nm
driver can operate in:
.Bl -tag -width "IBSS-masterXX"
.It BSS mode
Also known as
.Em infrastructure
mode, this is used when associating with an access point, through
which all traffic passes.
This mode is the default.
.It Host AP
In this mode the driver acts as an access point (base station)
for other cards.
.El
.Pp
The
.Nm
driver can be configured to use
Wired Equivalent Privacy (WEP) or
Wi-Fi Protected Access (WPA-PSK and WPA2-PSK).
WPA is the current encryption standard for wireless networks.
It is strongly recommended that WEP
not be used as the sole mechanism
to secure wireless communication,
due to serious weaknesses in it.
The
.Nm
driver relies on the software 802.11 stack for the WPA handshake.
Both encryption and decryption of data frames are handled by the
firmware.
.Pp
The firmware automatically selects the transmit speed and the channel
depending on the received signal strength.
.Pp
The
.Nm
driver can be configured at runtime with
.Xr ifconfig 8
or on boot with
.Xr hostname.if 5 .
.Sh FILES
The driver needs a firmware file which is loaded when the driver
attaches.
A prepackaged version of the firmware can be installed using
.Xr fw_update 1 .
.Sh EXAMPLES
The following example scans for available networks:
.Pp
.Dl # ifconfig bwfm0 scan
.Pp
The following
.Xr hostname.if 5
example configures bwfm0 to join network
.Dq mynwid ,
using WPA key
.Dq mywpakey ,
obtaining an IP address using DHCP:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
nwid mynwid wpakey mywpakey
dhcp
.Ed
.Pp
The following
.Xr hostname.if 5
example creates a host-based access point on boot:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
mediaopt hostap
nwid mynwid wpakey mywpakey
inet 192.168.1.1 255.255.255.0
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr arp 4 ,
.Xr ifmedia 4 ,
.Xr intro 4 ,
.Xr netintro 4 ,
.Xr pci 4 ,
.Xr usb 4 ,
.Xr hostname.if 5 ,
.Xr ifconfig 8
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
driver first appeared in
.Ox 6.3 .
.Sh AUTHORS
.An -nosplit
The
.Nm
driver was written by
.An Patrick Wildt Aq Mt patrick@blueri.se .
.Sh CAVEATS
The firmware is outdated and contains known vulnerabilities.
