.\"	$OpenBSD: cac.4,v 1.9 2002/10/04 16:17:01 mickey Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2000,2001 Michael Shalayeff.  All rights reserved.
.\" Public Domain.
.\"
.Dd December 17, 2000
.Dt CAC 4
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm cac
.Nd Compaq Smart ARRAY RAID controllers
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Cd "cac* at pci? dev ? function ?"
.Cd "cac* at eisa? slot ?"
.Cd "scsibus* at cac?"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
driver provides support for the following RAID controllers:
.Tn Compaq Integrated Array ,
.Tn Compaq IAES ,
.Tn Compaq IDA ,
.Tn Compaq IDA-2 ,
.Tn Compaq RAID LC2 ,
.Tn Compaq Smart Array 221 ,
.Tn Compaq Smart Array 3100ES ,
.Tn Compaq Smart Array 3200 ,
.Tn Compaq Smart Array 4200 ,
.Tn Compaq Smart Array 4250ES ,
.Tn Compaq Smart Array 431 ,
.Tn Compaq SMART ,
.Tn Compaq SMART-2/E ,
.Tn Compaq SMART-2/P ,
.Tn Compaq SMART-2DH ,
.Tn Compaq SMART-2SL .
.Pp
All the RAID set volume management is done via the card BIOS.
.Pp
Although the controllers are actual RAID controllers the driver makes them
look just like SCSI controllers.
All RAID configuration is done through the controllers' BIOSes.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr eisa 4 ,
.Xr intro 4 ,
.Xr pci 4 ,
.Xr scsi 4 ,
.Xr sd 4
.Sh AUTHORS
The
.Nm
driver was written by
.An Michael Shalayeff Aq mickey@openbsd.org ,
inspired by the
.Nx
driver by
.An Andrew Doran Aq ad@netbsd.org .
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
driver first appeared in
.Ox 2.9 .
.Sh BUGS
The card provides a mechanism to receive asynchronous notifications
about RAID set status change and so forth, unfortunately this
information is not public.
.Pp
Only a few PCI cards were tested, but others should work.
