.\"	$OpenBSD: com.4,v 1.19 2005/01/04 16:39:08 miod Exp $
.\"	$NetBSD: com.4,v 1.5 1996/03/16 00:07:08 thorpej Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1991 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" the Systems Programming Group of the University of Utah Computer
.\" Science Department.
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     from: @(#)dca.4	5.2 (Berkeley) 3/27/91
.\"
.Dd January 4, 2005
.Dt COM 4
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm com ,
.Nm pccom
.Nd serial communications interface
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Cd "# pccom or com attachments"
.Cd "#"
.Cd "# i386"
.Cd "pccom0 at isa? port 0x3f8 irq 4"
.Cd "pccom1 at isa? port 0x2f8 irq 3"
.Cd "pccom2 at isa? port 0x3e8 irq 5"
.Cd "pccom3 at isa? port 0x2e8 irq 9"
.Cd "pccom* at isapnp?"
.Cd "pccom* at pcmcia?"
.Cd "pccom* at puc?"
.Pp
.Cd "pccom* at addcom?"
.Cd "pccom* at ast?"
.Cd "pccom* at boca?"
.Cd "pccom* at hsq?"
.Cd "pccom* at rtfps?"
.Pp
.Cd "# alpha and amd64"
.Cd "com0 at isa? port 0x3f8 irq 4"
.Cd "com1 at isa? port 0x2f8 irq 3"
.Pp
.Cd "# hppa"
.Cd "com0 at gsc? offset 0x5000 irq 5"
.Cd "com0 at gsc? offset 0x23000 irq 5"
.Cd "com1 at gsc? offset 0x22000 irq 6"
.Cd "com2 at gsc? irq 13"
.Cd "com1 at dino? irq 11"
.Pp
.Cd "# sparc64"
.Cd "com* at asio?"
.Cd "com* at ebus?"
.Pp
.Cd "# zaurus"
.Cd "com0 at pxaip? addr 0x40100000 intr 22           " Pq "full function UART"
.Cd "com1 at pxaip? addr 0x40200000 intr 21           " Pq "bluetooth UART"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm com
and
.Nm pccom
drivers provide support for NS8250-, NS16450-, NS16550-, ST16650-, and
TI16750-based
.Tn EIA
.Tn RS-232C
.Pf ( Tn CCITT
.Tn V.28 )
communications interfaces.
The
.Nm pccom
driver (i386-only) also supports the XR16850 UART.
.Pp
The NS8250 and NS16450 have single
character buffers, the NS16550 has a 16 character buffer, while
the ST16650 has a 32 character buffer, and the TI16750 has a 64 character
buffer.
The XR16850 has a 128 character buffer.
.Pp
The
.Nm com
and
.Nm pccom
drivers are mutually exclusive; both may not be present in the same system at
the same time.
Attempting to compile such a system will fail.
.Pp
Input and output for each line may be set to one of following baud rates;
50, 75, 110, 134.5, 150, 300, 600, 1200, 1800, 2400, 4800, 9600,
19200, 38400, 57600, or 115200, or any other baud rate which is a factor
of 115200.
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width Pa -compact
.It Pa /dev/tty00
.It Pa /dev/tty01
.It Pa /dev/cua00
.It Pa /dev/cua01
.El
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
.Bl -diag
.It com%d: %d silo overflows
The input
.Dq silo
has overflowed and incoming data has been lost.
.It com%d: weird interrupt: iir=%x
The device has generated an unexpected interrupt
with the code listed.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr addcom 4 ,
.Xr asio 4 ,
.Xr ast 4 ,
.Xr boca 4 ,
.Xr dino 4 ,
.Xr ebus 4 ,
.Xr gsc 4 ,
.Xr hsq 4 ,
.Xr intro 4 ,
.Xr isa 4 ,
.Xr isapnp 4 ,
.Xr pcmcia 4 ,
.Xr puc 4 ,
.Xr pxaip 4 ,
.Xr rtfps 4 ,
.Xr tty 4
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
driver was originally derived from the
.Nm HP9000/300
.Nm dca
driver.
.Sh BUGS
Data loss is possible on busy systems with unbuffered UARTs at high speed.
.Pp
The name of this driver and the constants which define the locations
of the various serial ports are holdovers from
.Nm DOS .
