.\"	$OpenBSD: de.4,v 1.12 2002/09/26 07:55:39 miod Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1997 David E. O'Brien
.\"
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE DEVELOPERS ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE DEVELOPERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd January 19, 1997
.Dt DE 4
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm de
.Nd DEC DC21x4x (Tulip) Ethernet driver
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Cd "de* at pci? dev ? function ?"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
device driver supports Ethernet adapters based on the Digital
Equipment DC21x4x based self-contained Ethernet chips.
This includes, among others, the following models:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width -offset indent -compact
.It Asante
.It Cogent EM100FX and EM440TX
.It DEC PCI DE435, EISA DE425, DE450, DE500
.It older LinkSys 10, 10/100
.It SMC 8432, 9332, 9334
.It ZNYX ZX3xx
.El
.Pp
This driver may support other cards based on the 21040 and 21041 Ethernet
controllers, or the 21140[A], 21141, 21142, and 21143 Fast Ethernet
controllers.
.Pp
The following media types and options (as given to
.Xr ifconfig 8 )
are supported:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width xxx -offset indent
.It Cm media No autoselect
Enable autoselection of the media type and options.
.It Cm media No 10baseT
Set 10Mbps operation on the 10baseT port.
.It Cm media No 10base2
Set 10Mbps operation on the BNC port.
.It Cm media No 10base5
Set 10Mbps operation on the AUI port.
.It Cm media No 100baseTX
Set 100Mbps (Fast Ethernet) operation.
.It Cm media No 100baseFX
Set 100Mbps operation.
.It Cm media No 100baseT4
Set 100Mbps operation (4-pair cat-3 cable).
.El
.Pp
The
.Nm
driver supports the following media options:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width xxx -offset indent -compact
.It full-duplex
Set full duplex operation for UTP port.
.El
.Pp
For more information on configuring this device, see
.Xr ifconfig 8 .
To view a list of media types and options supported by your card try
.Ic ifconfig -m <device> .
For example,
.Ic ifconfig -m de0 .
.Pp
Note that the media types available depend on the particular card in use.
Some cards are explicitly programmed to a particular media type by a
setup utility and are not changeable.
.Pp
Use the
.Xr ifconfig 8
command an in particular the
.Fl m
flag to list the supported media types for your particular card.
.Pp
The old
.Dq ifconfig linkN
method of configuration is not supported.
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
.Bl -diag
.It "de%d: waking device from sleep/snooze mode"
The 21041 and 21140A chips support suspending the operation of the card.
.It "de%d: error: desired IRQ of %d does not match device's actual IRQ of %d"
The device probe detected that the board is configured for a different
interrupt than the one specified in the kernel configuration file.
.It "de%d: not configured; limit of %d reached or exceeded"
There is a limit of 32
.Nm
devices allowed in a single machine.
.It "de%d: not configured; 21040 pass 2.0 required (%d.%d found)"
.It "de%d: not configured; 21140 pass 1.1 required (%d.%d found)"
Certain revisions of the chipset are not supported by this driver.
.El
.Sh CAVEATS
Since the 21040 is available on both EISA and PCI boards, one must be careful
in how defines the 21040 in the kernel config file.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr arp 4 ,
.Xr ifmedia 4 ,
.Xr intro 4 ,
.Xr netintro 4 ,
.Xr pci 4 ,
.Xr hostname.if 5 ,
.Xr ifconfig 8
.Sh AUTHORS
The
.Nm
device driver was written by Matt Thomas.
This manual page was written by David E. O'Brien.
