.\"	$OpenBSD: ec.4,v 1.12 2002/09/26 07:55:39 miod Exp $
.\"     $NetBSD: ec.4,v 1.4 1998/08/09 00:39:02 thorpej Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1997 The NetBSD Foundation, Inc.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to The NetBSD Foundation
.\" by Jason R. Thorpe of the Numerical Aerospace Simulation Facility,
.\" NASA Ames Research Center.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"        This product includes software developed by the NetBSD
.\"        Foundation, Inc. and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of The NetBSD Foundation nor the names of its
.\"    contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived
.\"    from this software without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE NETBSD FOUNDATION, INC. AND CONTRIBUTORS
.\" ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED
.\" TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
.\" PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE FOUNDATION OR CONTRIBUTORS
.\" BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
.\" INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
.\" CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
.\" POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd September 22, 1998
.Dt EC 4
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm ec
.Nd 3Com EtherLink II Ethernet (3c503) driver
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Cd "ec0 at isa? port 0x250 iomem 0xd8000 irq 9"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
device driver supports 3Com EtherLink II (3C503) Ethernet cards.
Other models of 3Com network cards are supported by the
.Xr ef 4 ,
.Xr eg 4 ,
.Xr el 4 ,
.Xr ep 4 ,
.Xr ie 4 ,
and
.Xr xl 4
drivers.
.Pp
The Etherlink II supports two media types on a single card.
All support the AUI media type.
The other media is either BNC or UTP behind a transceiver.
Software cannot differentiate between BNC and UTP cards.
.Pp
The following media types and options (as given to
.Xr ifconfig 8 )
are supported:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width xxx -offset indent
.It Cm media No 10base5
Set 10base5 (thick-net) operation.
.It Cm media No 10base2
Set BNC (10base2/thin-net) or UTP operation.
.El
.Pp
For more information on configuring this device, see
.Xr ifconfig 8 .
To view a list of media types and options supported by your card try
.Dq ifconfig -m <device> .
For example,
.Dq ifconfig -m ec0 .
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
.Bl -diag
.It "ec0: wildcarded IRQ is not allowed"
The IRQ was wildcarded in the kernel configuration file.
This is not supported.
.It "ec0: invalid IRQ <n>, must be 3, 4, 5, or 9"
An IRQ other than the above listed IRQs was specified in the kernel
configuration file.
The Etherlink II hardware only supports the above listed IRQs.
.It "ec0: failed to clear shared memory at offset <off>"
The memory test was unable to clear the interface's shared memory
region.
This often indicates that the card is configured at a conflicting
.Em iomem
address.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr ef 4 ,
.Xr eg 4 ,
.Xr el 4 ,
.Xr ep 4 ,
.Xr ie 4 ,
.Xr ifmedia 4 ,
.Xr intro 4 ,
.Xr isa 4 ,
.Xr xl 4 ,
.Xr hostname.if 5 ,
.Xr ifconfig 8
