.\"     $OpenBSD: epic.4,v 1.4 2005/09/30 20:34:24 jaredy Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1998 Jason L. Wright (jason@thought.net)
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
.\" DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT,
.\" INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
.\" (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
.\" SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
.\" STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN
.\" ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
.\" POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd May 09, 2005
.Dt EPIC 4
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm epic
.Nd SMC 83C170 (EPIC/100) Ethernet driver
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Cd "epic* at pci?"
.Cd "qsphy* at mii?"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
interface provides access to the 10Mb/s and 100Mb/s Ethernet networks via the
.Tn SMC
.Tn EPIC
chipset.
This driver provides support for the
.Tn SMC
.Tn EtherPower II 10/100
Ethernet cards.
.Pp
When a
.Nm
interface is brought up, by default, it will attempt to auto-negotiate the
link speed and duplex.
The speeds, in order of attempt, are: 100Mb/s Full Duplex, 100Mb/s Half Duplex,
10 Mb/s Full Duplex, and 10 Mb/s Half Duplex.
.Pp
The
.Nm
supports several media types, which are selected via the
.Xr ifconfig 8
command.
The supported media types are:
.Bl -tag -width 6n -offset indent
.It media autoselect
Attempt to autoselect the media type (default)
.It media 100baseFX mediaopt full-duplex
Use 100baseFX (fiber), full duplex
.It media 100baseFX Op mediaopt half-duplex
Use 100baseFX (fiber), half duplex
.It media 100baseTX mediaopt full-duplex
Use 100baseTX, full duplex
.It media 100baseTX Op mediaopt half-duplex
Use 100baseTX, half duplex
.It media 100baseTX mediaopt loopback
Put the interface into loopback mode
.It media 10baseT mediaopt full-duplex
Use 10baseT, full duplex
.It media 10baseT Op mediaopt half-duplex
Use 10baseT, half duplex
.It media 10baseT mediaopt loopback
Put the interface into loopback mode
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr arp 4 ,
.Xr ifmedia 4 ,
.Xr inet 4 ,
.Xr intro 4 ,
.Xr netintro 4 ,
.Xr pci 4 ,
.Xr qsphy 4 ,
.Xr hostname.if 5 ,
.Xr ifconfig 8
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
device driver first appeared in
.Nx 1.4 .
.Ox
support was added in
.Ox 3.8 .
.Sh AUTHORS
.An -nosplit
The
.Nm
driver was written by
.An Jason R. Thorpe Aq thorpej@wasabisystems.com
and ported to
.Ox
by
.An Brad Smith Aq brad@openbsd.org .
