.\"	$OpenBSD: gdt.4,v 1.11 2000/11/10 20:02:16 todd Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2000 Niklas Hallqvist.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\"
.Dd February 17, 2000
.Dt GDT 4
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm gdt
.Nd ICP-Vortex GDT RAID driver
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Cd "gdt* at pci? dev ? function ?"
.Cd "scsibus* at gdt?"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
driver provides support for the following adapters:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width -offset indent -compact
.Tn GDT60x0 ,
.Tn GDT6000B ,
.Tn GDT6x10 ,
.Tn GDT6x20 ,
.Tn GDT6530 ,
.Tn GDT6550 ,
.Tn GDT6x17 ,
.Tn GDT6x27 ,
.Tn GDT6537 ,
.Tn GDT6557 ,
.Tn GDT6x15 ,
.Tn GDT6x25 ,
.Tn GDT6535 ,
.Tn GDT6555 ,
.Tn GDT6x17RP ,
.Tn GDT6x27RP ,
.Tn GDT6537RP ,
.Tn GDT6557RP ,
.Tn GDT6x11RP ,
.Tn GDT6x21RP ,
.Tn GDT6x17RD ,
.Tn GDT6x27RD ,
.Tn GDT6537RD ,
.Tn GDT6557RD ,
.Tn GDT6x11RD ,
.Tn GDT6x21RD ,
.Tn GDT6x18RD ,
.Tn GDT6x28RD ,
.Tn GDT6x38RD ,
.Tn GDT6x58RD ,
.Tn GDT6518RS ,
.Tn GDT7x18RN ,
.Tn GDT7x28RN ,
.Tn GDT7x38RN ,
.Tn GDT7x58RN ,
.Tn GDT6x19RD ,
.Tn GDT6x29RD ,
.Tn GDT7x19RN ,
.Tn GDT7x29RN .
.Pp
Although only the
.Tn GDT6x27RP
and the
.Tn GDT6518RS
has been tested by the author, the interface the driver sees is uniform over
all the models and should therefore work just fine.
.Pp
Although the controllers are actual RAID controllers the driver makes them
look just like SCSI controllers.  All RAID configuration is done through
the controllers' BIOSes.
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
.Bl -tag
.It "pci_mem_find: expected mem type 00000000, found 00000002"
This message occurs during autoconfiguration if jumper J4 is set to map
the controller memory below 1MB in physical memory.  The driver primarily
wants this jumper to be set the other way round, but it will work with it in
any setting.  If the diagnostic is considered a nuisance, alter jumper
J4's setting.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr intro 4 ,
.Xr scsi 4 ,
.Xr sd 4
.Sh AUTHORS
The
.Nm
driver was written by
.An Niklas Hallqvist Aq niklas@openbsd.org ,
inspired by the Linux driver by
.An Achim Luebner Aq achim@vortex.de .
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm gdt
driver first appeared in
.Ox 2.7 .
.Sh BUGS
An ISA & EISA front-end is needed.
.Pp
The driver does not yet support transparent raw SCSI mode.
.Pp
It would be nice to configure the RAID units after boot
but the information on how to do that is not public.
