.\" $OpenBSD: ice.4,v 1.2 2025/04/01 12:13:50 stsp Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2024 Stefan Sperling <stsp@openbsd.org>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: April 1 2025 $
.Dt ICE 4
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm ice
.Nd Intel Ethernet 800 series Ethernet device
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Cd "ice* at pci?"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
driver supports Intel 800 series controllers based on the
Intel E810 Ethernet chipset.
.Sh FILES
Intel 800 series controllers contain basic firmware which allows the
device to be used without any hardware offloading features enabled.
For full functionality, the device needs the following firmware file,
which is loaded by the driver when the system boots:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width Ds -offset indent -compact
.It Pa /etc/firmware/ice-ddp
.El
.Pp
This firmware file is not free because Intel refuses to grant
distribution rights without contractual obligations.
As a result, even though
.Ox
includes the driver, the firmware file cannot be included and
users have to download the file on their own.
.Pp
A prepackaged version of the firmware can be installed using
.Xr fw_update 8 .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr arp 4 ,
.Xr ifmedia 4 ,
.Xr intro 4 ,
.Xr netintro 4 ,
.Xr pci 4 ,
.Xr hostname.if 5 ,
.Xr ifconfig 8
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
driver first appeared in
.Fx 12.2 .
.Ox
support was added in
.Ox 7.7 .
.Sh AUTHORS
The
.Nm
driver was written by Intel and ported to
.Ox
by
.An Stefan Sperling Aq Mt stsp@openbsd.org .
.Sh CAVEATS
The
.Nm
driver does not support any of the offloading capabilities offered by
the device.
Additional work is required before those features can be supported.
