.\" $OpenBSD: ich.4,v 1.2 2000/05/31 02:18:14 aaron Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2000 Michael Shalayeff
.\" All rights reserved
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. The author's name or those of the contributors may not be used to
.\"    endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\"    specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR(S) AND CONTRIBUTORS
.\" ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED
.\" TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
.\" PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS
.\" BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF MIND, USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR
.\" BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY,
.\" WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR
.\" OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF
.\" ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd May 30, 2000
.Dt ICH 4
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm ich
.Nd Intel 82801AA/AB and 440MX AC'97 audio driver
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Cd "ich* at pci? dev ? function ?"
.Cd "audio* at ich?"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
driver provides support for AC'97 audio present on the Intel 82801AA/AB
I/O controller hub and 82440MX chipset.
Its DMA engine supports full-duplex operation and has separate DMA channels
for line input and microphone.
Unfortunately, simultaneous recording from both line and microphone inputs
is not supported due to the current
.Xr ac97 4
design.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr ac97 4 ,
.Xr audio 4 ,
.Xr mixer 4
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
device driver appeared in
.Ox 2.8 .
.Sh BUGS
This chipset supports only 48KHz rate for both DAC and ADC operation,
unfortunately some audio applications have poor support for this rate
and mpg123 is one of those cases.
