.\"	$OpenBSD: iic.4,v 1.62 2007/09/09 15:59:47 deraadt Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, 2006 Alexander Yurchenko <grange@openbsd.org>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: September 9 2007 $
.Dt IIC 4
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm iic
.Nd Inter IC (I2C) bus
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Cd "iic* at kiic?                  # macppc"
.Cd "iic* at piic?                  # macppc"
.Cd "iic* at smu?                   # macppc"
.Cd "iic* at alipm?                 # alpha i386 sparc64 "
.Cd "iic* at amdiic?                # amd64 i386"
.Cd "iic* at amdpm?                 # i386"
.Cd "iic* at gscsio?                # i386"
.Cd "iic* at ichiic?                # amd64 i386"
.Cd "iic* at iopiic?                # armish"
.Cd "iic* at nviic?                 # amd64 i386"
.Cd "iic* at pcfiic?                # sparc64"
.Cd "iic* at piixpm?                # amd64 i386"
.Cd "iic* at viapm?                 # amd64 i386"
.Cd "iic* at gpioiic?               # i386"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Tn I2C
is a two-wire bus developed by Philips used for connecting
integrated circuits.
It is commonly used for connecting devices such as EEPROMs,
temperature sensors, fan controllers, real-time clocks, tuners,
and other types of integrated circuits.
.Pp
The
.Nm
driver provides a uniform programming interface layer between
.Tn I2C
master controllers and various
.Tn I2C
slave devices.
Each
.Tn I2C
master controller attaches an
.Nm
framework; several slave devices can then be attached to the
.Nm
bus.
.Pp
All
.Tn I2C
slave devices are uniquely identified by the address on the bus.
The master accesses a particular slave device using its address.
Devices are found on the bus using a sophisticated scanning routine
which attempts to identify commonly available devices.
On other machines (such as sparc64 and macppc) where the machine ROM
supplies a list of I2C devices, that list is used instead.
.Pp
System Management Bus (SMBus) protocol is also supported by emulating
it with the
.Tn I2C
commands.
.Sh SUPPORTED MASTERS
.Bl -tag -width 13n -compact
.It Xr alipm 4
Acer Labs M7101 SMBus controller
.It Xr amdiic 4
AMD-8111 SMBus controller
.It Xr amdpm 4
AMD-756/766/768/8111 Power Management and SMBus controller
.It Xr gpioiic 4
GPIO I2C controller
.It Xr gscsio 4
National Semiconductor Geode SC1100 I2C controller
.It Xr ichiic 4
Intel ICH SMBus controller
.It Xr kiic 4
Apple Kauai I2C controller
.It Xr nviic 4
NVIDIA nForce2/3/4 SMBus controller
.It Xr pcfiic 4
Phillips PCF8584 I2C controller
.It Xr piic 4
Apple via-pmu I2C controller
.It Xr piixpm 4
Intel PIIX SMBus controller
.It Xr smu 4
Apple System Management Unit
.It Xr viapm 4
VIA SMBus controller
.El
.Sh SUPPORTED SLAVES
.Bl -tag -width 13n -compact
.It Xr adc 4
Analog Devices AD7416/AD7417/7418 temperature sensor
.It Xr adl 4
Andigilog aSC7621 temperature, voltage, and fan sensor
.It Xr admcts 4
Analog Devices ADM1026 temperature and voltage sensor
.It Xr admlc 4
Analog Devices ADM1024 temperature and voltage sensor
.It Xr admtemp 4
Analog Devices ADM1021 temperature sensor
.It Xr admtm 4
Analog Devices ADM1025 temperature and voltage sensor
.It Xr admtmp 4
Analog Devices ADM1030 temperature sensor
.It Xr admtt 4
Analog Devices ADM1031 temperature sensor
.It Xr adt 4
Analog Devices ADT7460 temperature, voltage, and fan sensor
.It Xr asbtm 4
Asus ASB 100 temperature sensor
.It Xr asms 4
Apple sudden motion sensor
.It Xr fcu 4
Apple Fan Control Unit sensor device
.It Xr fintek 4
Fintek F75375 temperature sensor
.It Xr glenv 4
Genesys Logic GL518SM temperature, voltage, and fan sensor
.It Xr lm 4
National Semiconductor LM78/79/81 temperature, voltage, and fan sensor
.It Xr lmenv 4
National Semiconductor LM87 temperature, voltage, and fan sensor
.It Xr lmn 4
National Semiconductor LM93 temperature, voltage, and fan sensor
.It Xr lmtemp 4
National Semiconductor LM75/LM77 temperature sensor
.It Xr maxds 4
Maxim DS1624/DS1631/DS1721 temperature sensor
.It Xr maxtmp 4
Maxim MAX6642/MAX6690 temperature sensor
.It Xr pcagpio 4
Philips PCA955[467] GPIO controller
.It Xr pcaled 4
Philips PCA9532 LED dimmer
.It Xr pcfadc 4
Philips PCF8591 temperature sensor
.It Xr ricohrtc 4
Ricoh RS5C372 Real Time Clock
.It Xr thmc 4
TI THMC50, Analog ADM1022/1028 temperature sensor
.It Xr tsl 4
TAOS TSL2560/61 light sensor
.It Xr wbenv 4
Winbond W83L784R/W83L785R/W83L785TS-L temperature, voltage, and fan sensor
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr intro 4 ,
.Xr iic 9
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Tn I2C
framework first appeared in
.Nx 2.0 .
.Ox
support was added in
.Ox 3.6 .
I2C bus scanning was added in
.Ox 3.9 .
.Sh AUTHORS
The
.Tn I2C
framework was written by
Steve C. Woodford and Jason R. Thorpe for
.Nx
and then ported to
.Ox
by
.An Alexander Yurchenko Aq grange@openbsd.org .
