.\"	$OpenBSD: isa.4,v 1.38 2006/08/31 16:18:36 jmc Exp $
.\"	$NetBSD: isa.4,v 1.19 2000/03/18 16:54:37 augustss Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2000 Theo de Raadt.  All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 1997 Jason R. Thorpe.  All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 1997 Jonathan Stone
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgements:
.\"      This product includes software developed by Jonathan Stone
.\" 4. The name of the author may not be used to endorse or promote products
.\"    derived from this software without specific prior written permission
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd April 4, 2000
.Dt ISA 4
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm isa
.Nd introduction to ISA bus support
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Cd "# amd64 and i386"
.Cd "isa0 at mainbus0"
.Cd "isa0 at pcib?"
.Pp
.Cd "# i386"
.Cd "isa0 at ichpcib?"
.Cd "isa0 at gscpcib?"
.Pp
.Cd "# alpha"
.Cd "isa* at pceb?"
.Cd "isa* at sio?"
.Pp
.Cd "# cats"
.Cd "isa0 at pcib?"
.Pp
Attachments are machine-dependent and depend on the bus topology and
.Tn ISA
bus interface of your system.
See
.Xr intro 4
for your system for details.
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The system includes a machine-independent
.Tn ISA
bus subsystem and several machine-independent
.Tn ISA
device drivers.
.Pp
Your system may support additional
.Tn ISA
devices.
Drivers for
.Tn ISA
devices not listed here are machine-dependent.
Consult your system's
.Xr intro 4
for additional information.
.Pp
Note that interrupt mappings on the i386 may require that you configure
your BIOS to reserve the interrupts for these devices as "Legacy ISA".
If such configuration is not done, the system may use those interrupts
for
.Xr pci 4
or
.Xr isapnp 4
devices instead.
.Sh SUPPORTED DEVICES
At least the following devices are supported:
.Ss SCSI controllers
.Bl -tag -width 12n -offset ind -compact
.It Xr aha 4
Adaptec AHA-154x family (154xA, 154xB, 154xC, and 154xCF) and the
BusLogic BT54x
.Tn SCSI
interfaces.
.It Xr aic 4
Adaptec AIC-6260 and Adaptec AIC-6360 based
.Tn SCSI
interfaces, including
the Adaptec 152x, SoundBlaster
.Tn SCSI
interfaces, and a variety of compatibles.
.It Xr bha 4
BusLogic BT-445
.Tn SCSI
interfaces.
.It Xr dpt 4
DPT SmartCache/SmartRAID III and IV SCSI interfaces.
.It Xr sea 4
Seagate/Future Domain
.Tn SCSI
cards.
ST01/02, Future Domain TMC-885, and Future Domain TMC-950.
.It Xr uha 4
Ultrastor 14f
.Tn SCSI
interfaces.
.It Xr wds 4
WD-7000 family of bus-mastering
.Tn SCSI
interfaces.
.El
.Ss Disk and tape controllers
.Bl -tag -width 12n -offset ind -compact
.It Xr mcd 4
Mitsumi CD-ROM drives.
.It Xr wdc 4
Standard Western Digital type hard drive controllers: MFM, RLL, ESDI,
and IDE/ATAPI.
See also the
.Xr pciide 4
device driver which is used instead on machines with PCI IDE controllers.
.It Xr wt 4
Wangtek and compatible QIC-02 and QIC-36 tape drives.
.El
.Ss Serial and parallel interfaces
.Bl -tag -width 12n -offset ind -compact
.It Xr com 4 , Xr pccom 4
NS8250, NS16450, NS16550, ST16550, and TI16750 serial driver.
The
.Xr pccom 4
driver is used on the i386; all the rest use
.Xr com 4 .
.It Xr addcom 4
Addonics FlexPort 8S serial communication cards.
.It Xr ast 4
Multi-port serial communications card first made by AST.
.It Xr boca 4
Boca BB100[48] and BB2016 multiplexing serial communications cards.
.It Xr cy 4
Cyclades Cyclom-4Y, -8Y, and -16Y asynchronous serial communications cards.
.It Xr lpt 4
Standard
.Tn ISA
parallel port interface.
.It Xr rtfps 4
IBM RT four-port serial cards.
.El
.Ss Network interfaces
.Bl -tag -width 12n -offset ind -compact
.It Xr ec 4
3Com EtherLink II (3c503) Ethernet device.
.It Xr ef 4
3Com Fast EtherLink ISA (3c515) 10/100 Ethernet device.
.It Xr eg 4
3Com EtherLink Plus Ethernet (3c505) Ethernet device.
.It Xr el 4
3Com EtherLink (3C501) Ethernet device.
.It Xr ep 4
3Com EtherLink III and Fast EtherLink III 10/100 Ethernet device.
.It Xr ie 4
Intel i82586/i82596 Ethernet device.
.It Xr lc 4
DEC EtherWORKS III 10/100 Ethernet device.
.It Xr le 4
AMD LANCE Ethernet device.
.It Xr ne 4
NE2000 and compatible 10/100 Ethernet device.
.It Xr sm 4
SMC91C9x and SMC91C1xx-based 10/100 Ethernet device.
.It Xr we 4
Western Digital/SMC WD80x3, SMC Elite Ultra, and SMC EtherEZ Ethernet device.
.El
.Ss Sound cards
.Bl -tag -width 12n -offset ind -compact
.It Xr aria 4
Aria 16 audio device.
.It Xr ess 4
ESS Technology AudioDrive family audio device.
.It Xr gus 4
Gravis UltraSound/UltraSound MAX audio device.
.It Xr pas 4
ProAudio Spectrum audio device.
.It Xr pss 4
Personal Sound System audio device.
.It Xr sb 4
SoundBlaster family (and compatibles) audio device.
.It Xr wss 4
Windows Sound System audio device.
.It Xr mpu 4
Roland/Yamaha generic MIDI UART devices.
.El
.Ss Radio receiver devices
.Bl -tag -width 12n -offset ind -compact
.It Xr az 4
Aztech/PackardBell radio card devices.
.It Xr rt 4
AIMS Lab Radiotrack FM radio device devices.
.It Xr rtii 4
AIMS Lab Radiotrack II FM radio device devices.
.It Xr sfr 4
SoundForte RadioLink SF16-FMR FM radio devices.
.It Xr sf2r 4
SoundForte RadioLink SF16-FMR2 FM radio devices.
.El
.Ss Miscellaneous devices
.Bl -tag -width 12n -offset ind -compact
.It Xr aps 4
ThinkPad Active Protection System hardware monitors.
.It Xr it 4
ITE IT8705F, IT8712F and SiS SiS950 hardware monitors.
.It Xr lm 4
National Semiconductor LM78, LM79 and compatible hardware monitors.
.It Xr pcic 4
.Tn ISA
PCMCIA controllers.
.It Xr viasio 4
VIA VT1211 LPC Super I/O.
.El
.Pp
Note that some
.Tn ISA
devices also have newer
.Tn ISA
Plug-and-Play variants.
These are listed in
.Xr isapnp 4 .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr intro 4 ,
.Xr isapnp 4
.Sh HISTORY
The machine-independent
.Tn ISA
subsystem appeared in
.Ox 2.0 .
