.\"	$OpenBSD: it.4,v 1.10 2007/12/18 21:17:54 form Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2007 Oleg Safiullin <form@pdp-11.org.ru>
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: December 18 2007 $
.Dt IT 4
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm it
.Nd ITE IT8705F/IT8712F/IT8716F/IT8718F/IT8726F and SiS SiS950 temperature,
voltage, and fan sensor with watchdog timer.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Cd "it0 at isa?"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
driver provides support for the ITE
.Tn IT8705F , IT8712F , IT8716F , IT8718F , IT8726F
and SiS
.Tn SiS950
hardware monitors and
.Xr watchdog 4
timer to be used with the
.Xr sysctl 8
interface.
.Pp
Most supported devices possess 15 sensors:
.Bl -column "Sensor" "Units" "Typical" -offset indent
.It Sy "Sensor" Ta Sy "Units" Ta Sy "Typical Use"
.It Li "temp0" Ta "uK" Ta "CPU Temperature"
.It Li "temp1" Ta "uK" Ta "Motherboard Temperature"
.It Li "temp2" Ta "uK" Ta "Unused"
.It Li "fan0" Ta "RPM" Ta "CPU Fan"
.It Li "fan1" Ta "RPM" Ta "Chassis Fan"
.It Li "fan2" Ta "RPM" Ta "Power Fan"
.It Li "volt0" Ta "uV DC" Ta "Core voltage"
.It Li "volt1" Ta "uV DC" Ta "Core voltage"
.It Li "volt2" Ta "uV DC" Ta "+3.3V"
.It Li "volt3" Ta "uV DC" Ta "+5V"
.It Li "volt4" Ta "uV DC" Ta "+12V"
.It Li "volt5" Ta "uV DC" Ta "-5V"
.It Li "volt6" Ta "uV DC" Ta "-12V"
.It Li "volt7" Ta "uV DC" Ta "+5VSB"
.It Li "volt8" Ta "uV DC" Ta "VBAT"
.El
.Pp
For some devices, sensors' names and numbers will be different.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr watchdog 4 ,
.Xr sensorsd 8 ,
.Xr sysctl 8
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
driver first appeared in
.Ox 3.4 .
.Sh AUTHORS
.Bl -tag -width indent -compact
.It "Julien Bordet" Aq zejames@greyhats.org
Initial design.
.It "Oleg Safiullin" Aq form@pdp-11.org.ru
Complete rewrite.
