.\" $OpenBSD: iwm.4,v 1.7 2015/02/21 08:56:10 jmc Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2007,2008
.\"	Damien Bergamini <damien.bergamini@free.fr>. All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: February 21 2015 $
.Dt IWM 4
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm iwm
.Nd Intel 7200 IEEE 802.11a/ac/b/g/n wireless network devices
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Cd "iwn* at pci?"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
driver provides support for
.Tn Intel
Wireless 7260 PCIe Mini Card network adapters.
.Pp
These are the modes the
.Nm
driver can operate in:
.Bl -tag -width "IBSS-masterXX"
.It BSS mode
Also known as
.Em infrastructure
mode, this is used when associating with an access point, through
which all traffic passes.
.\" This mode is the default.
.\" .It monitor mode
.\" In this mode the driver is able to receive packets without
.\" associating with an access point.
.\" This disables the internal receive filter and enables the card to
.\" capture packets from networks which it wouldn't normally have access to,
.\" or to scan for access points.
.El
.Pp
The
.Nm
driver can be configured to use
Wired Equivalent Privacy (WEP) or
Wi-Fi Protected Access (WPA-PSK and WPA2-PSK).
WPA is the current encryption standard for wireless networks.
It is strongly recommended that WEP
not be used as the sole mechanism
to secure wireless communication,
due to serious weaknesses in it.
.Pp
The
.Nm
driver can be configured at runtime with
.Xr ifconfig 8
or on boot with
.Xr hostname.if 5 .
.Sh FILES
The driver needs at least version 5.6 of the following firmware files,
which are loaded when an interface is brought up:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width Ds -offset indent -compact
.\".It Pa /etc/firmware/iwm-3160-9
.It Pa /etc/firmware/iwm-7260-9
.\".It Pa /etc/firmware/iwm-7265-9
.El
.Pp
These firmware files are not free because Intel refuses to grant
distribution rights without contractual obligations.
As a result, even though
.Ox
includes the driver, the firmware files cannot be included and
users have to download these files on their own.
.Pp
A prepackaged version of the firmware can be installed using
.Xr fw_update 1 .
.Sh EXAMPLES
The following example scans for available networks:
.Pp
.Dl # ifconfig iwm0 scan
.Pp
The following
.Xr hostname.if 5
example configures iwm0 to join network
.Dq mynwid ,
using WPA key
.Dq mywpakey ,
obtaining an IP address using DHCP:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
nwid mynwid
wpakey mywpakey
dhcp
.Ed
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
.Bl -diag
.It "iwm0: device timeout"
A frame dispatched to the hardware for transmission did not complete in time.
The driver will reset the hardware.
This should not happen.
.It "iwm0: fatal firmware error"
For some reason, the firmware crashed.
The driver will reset the hardware.
This should not happen.
.It "iwm0: radio is disabled by hardware switch"
The radio transmitter is off and thus no packet can go out.
The driver will reset the hardware.
Make sure the laptop radio switch is on.
.It "iwm0: could not read firmware ... (error N)"
For some reason, the driver was unable to read the firmware image from the
filesystem.
The file might be missing or corrupted.
.It "iwm0: firmware too short: N bytes"
The firmware image is corrupted and can't be loaded into the adapter.
.It "iwm0: could not load firmware"
An attempt to load the firmware into the adapter failed.
The driver will reset the hardware.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr arp 4 ,
.Xr ifmedia 4 ,
.Xr intro 4 ,
.Xr netintro 4 ,
.Xr pci 4 ,
.Xr hostname.if 5 ,
.Xr ifconfig 8
.Sh CAVEATS
The
.Nm
driver does not support any of the 802.11n and 802.11ac capabilities offered by
the adapters.
Additional work is required in
.Xr ieee80211 9
before those features can be supported.
.Sh BUGS
The firmware crashes if the MAC address is changed with
.Dl # ifconfig iwm0 lladdr ...
.Pp
Occasionally, firmware errors occur before association to a wireless
network has completed.
Several attempts may be required before link is successfully established.
.Pp
802.11a support is disabled because transmitting packets in this mode
does not work yet.
