.\" $OpenBSD: ixgb.4,v 1.3 2005/11/15 00:25:31 brad Exp $
.\" Copyright (c) 2002 Intel Corporation
.\" All rights reserved.
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms of the Software, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code of the Software may retain the above
.\" copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form of the Software may reproduce the
.\" above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following
.\" disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
.\" distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of the Intel Corporation nor the names of its contributors
.\" shall be used to endorse or promote products derived from this Software
.\" without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
.\" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE INTEL OR ITS CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
.\" SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER
.\" CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY,
.\" OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE
.\" USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" * Other names and brands may be claimed as the property of others.
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD: em.4,v 1.18 2005/01/30 12:29:06 yar Exp $
.Dd November 14, 2005
.Dt IXGB 4
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm ixgb 
.Nd "Intel(R) PRO/10GbE Ethernet driver"
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Cd "ixgb* at pci?"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
driver provides support for PCI-X 10Gb Ethernet adapters based on the
Intel 82597EX Ethernet controller chips.
The driver supports IPv4 receive IP/TCP/UDP checksum offload and
Jumbo frames.
This includes the following models:
.Pp
.Bl -item -offset indent -compact
.It
Intel PRO/10GbE CX4 Server Adapter (PXLA8591CX4)
.It
Intel PRO/10GbE LR Server Adapter (PXLA8591LR)
.It
Intel PRO/10GbE SR Server Adapter (PXLA8591SR)
.It
Sun 10 Gigabit Ethernet PCI-X Adapter
.El
.Pp
The
.Nm
driver supports the following media types:
.Bl -tag -width autoselect -offset indent
.It autoselect
Enables auto-negotiation for speed and duplex.
.It 1000baseSX
Sets 1000Mbps operation.
Only full-duplex mode is supported at this speed.
.It 1000baseT
Sets 1000Mbps operation.
Only full-duplex mode is supported at this speed.
.El
.Pp
For more information on configuring this device, see
.Xr ifconfig 8 .
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
.Bl -diag
.It "ixgb%d: Unable to allocate bus resource: memory"
A fatal initialization error has occurred.
.It "ixgb%d: Unable to allocate bus resource: interrupt"
A fatal initialization error has occurred.
.It "ixgb%d: watchdog timeout -- resetting"
The device has stopped responding to the network, or there is a problem with
the network connection (cable).
.El
.Sh SUPPORT
For general information and support, go to the Intel support website at:
.Pa http://support.intel.com .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr arp 4 ,
.Xr ifmedia 4 ,
.Xr intro 4 ,
.Xr netintro 4 ,
.Xr pci 4 ,
.Xr hostname.if 5 ,
.Xr ifconfig 8
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
device driver first appeared in
.Ox 3.9 .
.Sh AUTHORS
The
.Nm
driver was written by
.An Intel Corporation Aq freebsdnic@mailbox.intel.com .
.Sh BUGS
Under small packet UDP stress tests with 10GbE driver, the
.Ox
system will drop UDP packets due to the fullness of the socket buffers.
You many want to change the driver's Flow Control variables to the minimum
value for controlling packet reception.
.Pp
Excessive CRC errors may be observed if the Intel PRO/10GbE CX4 Server
adapter is connected to a Fujitsu XENPAK CX4 module in a SmartBits chassis
using 15 m/24AWG cable assemblies manufactured by Fujitsu or Leoni.
The CRC errors may be received either by the Intel PRO/10GbE CX4 Server
adapter or the SmartBits.
If this situation occurs using a different cable assembly may resolve the
issue.
.Pp
Excessive CRC errors may be observed if the Intel PRO/10GbE CX4 Server
adapter is connected to an HP Procurve 3400cl switch port using short cables
(1 m or shorter).
If this situation occurs, using a longer cable may resolve the issue.
.Pp
Excessive CRC errors may be observed using Fujitsu 24AWG cable assemblies that
Are 10 m or longer or where using a Leoni 15 m/24AWG cable assembly.
The CRC errors may be received either by the CX4 Server adapter or at the switch.
If this situation occurs, using a different cable assembly may resolve the issue.
