.\"	$OpenBSD: nfe.4,v 1.14 2007/09/07 18:59:18 jmc Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2006 Jonathan Gray <jsg@openbsd.org>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: September 7 2007 $
.Dt NFE 4
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm nfe
.Nd NVIDIA nForce MCP 10/100/Gigabit Ethernet device
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Cd "nfe* at pci?"
.Cd "ciphy* at mii?"
.Cd "eephy* at mii?"
.Cd "icsphy* at mii?"
.Cd "rgephy* at mii?"
.Cd "rlphy* at mii?"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
driver supports PCI Ethernet adapters based on the NVIDIA
nForce Media and Communications Processors (MCP), such as
the nForce, nForce 2, nForce 3, CK804, MCP04, MCP51, MCP55,
MCP61, MCP65, MCP67 and MCP73 Ethernet controller chips.
.Pp
The
.Nm
driver supports the following
.Ar media
types:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width autoselect -compact
.It Cm autoselect
Enable autoselection of the media type and options.
.It Cm 10baseT
Set 10Mbps operation.
.It Cm 100baseTX
Set 100Mbps (Fast Ethernet) operation.
.It Cm 1000baseT
Set 1000Mbps (Gigabit Ethernet) operation (recent models only).
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr arp 4 ,
.Xr ciphy 4 ,
.Xr eephy 4 ,
.Xr icsphy 4 ,
.Xr ifmedia 4 ,
.Xr intro 4 ,
.Xr netintro 4 ,
.Xr pci 4 ,
.Xr rgephy 4 ,
.Xr rlphy 4 ,
.Xr hostname.if 5 ,
.Xr ifconfig 8
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
device driver first appeared in
.Ox 3.9 .
.Sh AUTHORS
.An -nosplit
The
.Nm
driver was written by
.An Jonathan Gray
.Aq jsg@openbsd.org
and
.An Damien Bergamini
.Aq damien@openbsd.org .
.Sh CAVEATS
NVIDIA refuse to release any documentation on their products.
