.\"	$OpenBSD: pci.4,v 1.134 2006/01/01 13:39:15 kettenis Exp $
.\"	$NetBSD: pci.4,v 1.29 2000/04/01 00:32:23 tsarna Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2000 Theo de Raadt.  All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 1997 Jason R. Thorpe.  All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 1997 Jonathan Stone
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgements:
.\"      This product includes software developed by Jonathan Stone
.\" 4. The name of the author may not be used to endorse or promote products
.\"    derived from this software without specific prior written permission
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd October 20, 2004
.Dt PCI 4
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm pci
.Nd introduction to PCI bus support
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Cd "# alpha"
.Cd "pci* at apecs?"
.Cd "pci* at cia?"
.Cd "pci* at irongate?"
.Cd "pci* at lca?"
.Cd "pci* at tsp?"
.Pp
.Cd "# amd64, i386"
.Cd "pci* at mainbus0"
.Pp
.Cd "# cats"
.Cd "pci0 at footbridge?"
.Pp
.Cd "# hppa"
.Cd "pci* at dino?"
.Pp
.Cd "# macppc"
.Cd "pci* at mpcpcibr?"
.Pp
.Cd "# sparc64"
.Cd "pci* at psycho?"
.Cd "pci* at schizo?"
.Pp
.Cd "# all architectures"
.Cd "pci* at pchb?"
.Cd "pci* at ppb?"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The system includes a machine-independent
.Tn PCI
bus subsystem and
several machine-independent
.Tn PCI
device drivers.
.Pp
Your system may support additional
.Tn PCI
devices.
Drivers for
.Tn PCI
devices not listed here are machine-dependent.
Consult your system's
.Xr intro 4
for additional information.
.Ss Details specific to the i386
Note that interrupt mappings on the i386 may require that you configure
your BIOS to reserve sufficient interrupts as "PCI/ISAPnP" so that there
are sufficient interrupts remaining to configure the discovered PCI
devices.
For more information, see
.Xr pcibios 4 .
.Sh SUPPORTED DEVICES
The system includes machine-independent
.Tn PCI
drivers, sorted by device type and driver name:
.Ss SCSI host adapters
.Bl -tag -width 10n -offset ind -compact
.It Xr adv 4 , Xr adw 4
AdvanSys PCI
.Tn SCSI
interfaces.
.It Xr ahc 4
Adaptec 27xx, 29xx, 39xx, 29160, and other AIC-7xxx-based
.Tn SCSI
interfaces.
.It Xr ahd 4
Adaptec PCI/PCI-X Ultra320 AIC79xx-based
.Tn SCSI
interfaces.
.It Xr bha 4
Buslogic BT-9xx
.Tn SCSI
interfaces.
.It Xr iha 4
Initio INIC-940 and INIC-950 based
.Tn SCSI
interfaces.
.It Xr isp 4
QLogic ISP-1020, ISP-1040, and ISP-2100
.Tn SCSI
and
.Tn FibreChannel
interfaces.
.It Xr mpt 4
LSI Fusion-MPT
.Tn SCSI/Fibre Channel
interfaces.
.It Xr pcscp 4
AMD Am53c974 PCscsi-PCI
.Tn SCSI
interfaces.
.It Xr siop 4
LSI/Symbios Logic/NCR 53c8xx and 53c1010-family
.Tn SCSI
interfaces.
.It Xr trm 4
Tekram DC-3x5U (TRM-S1040 based)
.Tn SCSI
interfaces.
.El
.Ss IDE disk controllers
.Bl -tag -width 10n -offset ind -compact
.It Xr pciide 4
PCI IDE controller driver.
.El
.Ss RAID and cache controllers
.Bl -tag -width 10n -offset ind -compact
.It Xr aac 4
Adaptec "FSA" family (Adaptec AAC, Dell PERC, HP NetRaid)
.Tn RAID
controllers.
.It Xr ami 4
American Megatrends Inc.
MegaRAID family
.Tn RAID
controllers.
.It Xr cac 4
Compaq Smart ARRAY
.Tn RAID
controllers.
.It Xr ciss 4
Compaq Smart ARRAY 5* and 6*
.Tn RAID
controllers.
.It Xr dpt 4
DPT SmartCache/SmartRAID III and IV
.Tn SCSI
controllers.
.It Xr gdt 4
ICP-Vortex GDT
.Tn RAID
controllers.
.It Xr iop 4
Generic
.Tn I2O
specification
.Tn RAID
controllers.
.It Xr twe 4
3ware Escalade
.Tn RAID
controllers.
.El
.Ss Network interfaces
.Bl -tag -width 10n -offset ind -compact
.It Xr an 4
Aironet Communications 4500/4800 IEEE 802.11FH/b wireless network adapters.
.It Xr art 4
Accoom Networks Artery T1/E1 network adapters.
.It Xr ath 4
Atheros IEEE 802.11a/b/g wireless network adapters.
.It Xr atw 4
ADMtek ADM8211 IEEE 802.11b wireless network adapters.
.It Xr bce 4
Broadcom BCM4401 Ethernet.
.It Xr bge 4
Broadcom BCM570x PCI Gigabit Ethernet.
.It Xr dc 4
Various Tulip-like Ethernet
interfaces such as the DEC/Intel 21143;
Macronix 98713, 98713A, 98715, 98715A, 98725, 98727, and 98732;
Davicom DM9100, DM9102, and DM9102A;
ASIX Electronics AX88140A and AX88141;
ADMtek AL981 Comet and AN983 Centaur-P;
Lite-On 82c168 and 82c169 PNIC;
and
Lite-On/Macronix 82c115 PNIC II.
.It Xr de 4
.Tn DEC
DC21x4x (Tulip) based Ethernet
interfaces, including the DE435, DE450, DE500;
Znyx ZX3xx;
SMC 8432, 9332, 9334;
Cogent/Adaptec EM100FX and EM440TX;
and Asante single- and multi-port
Ethernet interfaces.
Multi-port interfaces are typically configured as
.Tn PCI Ns \- Ns Tn PCI
bridges with multiple
.Xr de 4
instances on the
.Tn PCI
bus on the other side of the bridge.
.It Xr em 4
Intel Gigabit Ethernet interfaces.
(i82542, i82543, i82544)
.\" .It Xr en 4
.\" Midway-based Efficient Networks Inc.\&
.\" and Adaptec ATM interfaces.
.It Xr ep 4
3Com 3c590 and 3c595 Ethernet interfaces.
.It Xr epic 4
SMC 83C170 (EPIC/100) Ethernet interfaces.
.It Xr fpa 4
.Tn DEC
DEFPA
.Tn FDDI
interfaces.
.It Xr fxp 4
Intel EtherExpress PRO 10+/100B Ethernet interfaces.
.It Xr gem 4
Sun GEM and Apple GMAC Gigabit Ethernet interfaces.
.It Xr ipw 4
.Tn Intel
PRO/Wireless 2100 IEEE 802.11b wireless network adapters.
.It Xr iwi 4
.Tn Intel
PRO/Wireless 2200BG/2225BG/2915ABG IEEE 802.11a/b/g wireless network adapters.
.It Xr ixgb 4
.Tn Intel
PRO/10GbE Ethernet interfaces.
.It Xr le 4
PCNet-PCI Ethernet interfaces.
.It Xr lge 4
Level 1 LXT1001 NetCellerator PCI Gigabit Ethernet.
.It Xr lmc 4
Lan Media Corporation
.Tn SSI/DS1/HSSI/DS3
interfaces.
.It Xr mtd 4
Myson Technologies
.Tn MTD803
3-in-1 Fast Ethernet interfaces.
.It Xr ne 4
NE2000-compatible Ethernet interfaces.
.It Xr nge 4
National Semiconductor DP83820 and DP83821 based Gigabit Ethernet.
.It Xr pcn 4
AMD PCnet-PCI Ethernet interfaces.
.It Xr ral 4
Ralink Technology RT2500 IEEE 802.11a/b/g wireless network adapters.
.It Xr re 4
RealTek 8169/8169S/8110S Ethernet interfaces.
.It Xr rl 4
Realtek 8129/8139 Ethernet interfaces.
.It Xr rtw 4
Realtek RTL8180L IEEE 802.11b wireless network adapters.
.It Xr san 4
Sangoma Technologies AFT T1/E1 Network interfaces.
.It Xr sf 4
Adaptec AIC-6915 "Starfire" Ethernet interfaces.
.It Xr sis 4
SiS 900, SiS 7016, and NS DP83815 Ethernet interfaces.
.It Xr sk 4
SysKonnect SK-984x Gigabit Ethernet interfaces.
.It Xr ste 4
Sundance Technologies ST201 Ethernet interfaces.
.It Xr stge 4
Sundance/Tamarack TC9021 Gigabit Ethernet driver.
.It Xr ti 4
Alteon Networks Tigon I and Tigon II Gigabit Ethernet interfaces.
.It Xr tl 4
Texas Instruments ThunderLAN-based Ethernet interfaces.
.It Xr txp 4
3Com 3XP Typhoon/Sidewinder (3C990) 10/100 Mbps Ethernet interfaces.
.It Xr vge 4
VIA Networking Technologies VT6122 Gigabit Ethernet interfaces.
.It Xr vr 4
VIA Technologies VT3043 and VT86C100A Ethernet interfaces.
.It Xr wb 4
Winbond W89C840F Ethernet interfaces.
.It Xr wi 4
WaveLAN/IEEE and PRISM-II IEEE 802.11b wireless network interfaces behind
a PLX 905x-based dumb PCMCIA->PCI bridge.
.It Xr xl 4
3Com 3c555, 3c556, 3c900, 3c905, 3c980, and 3cSOHO Ethernet interfaces.
.El
.Ss Cryptography accelerators
.Bl -tag -width 10n -offset ind -compact
.It Xr hifn 4
Hifn 7751, 7811, and 7951.
Symmetric Encryption Accelerator.
.It Xr ises 4
Pijnenburg PCC-ISES hardware crypto accelerator.
.It Xr lofn 4
Hifn 6500 crypto accelerator.
.It Xr noct 4
NetOctave NSP2000 crypto accelerator.
.It Xr nofn 4
Hifn 7814, 7851 and 7854 crypto processor.
.It Xr safe 4
Safenet SafeXcel 1141/1741 crypto accelerator.
.It Xr ubsec 4
Broadcom Bluesteelnet uBsec 5501, 5601, 5805, 5820, and 5821.
.El
.Ss Serial interfaces
.Bl -tag -width 10n -offset ind -compact
.It Xr cy 4
Cyclades Cyclom-4Y, -8Y, and -16Y asynchronous serial communications devices.
.It Xr cz 4
Cyclades-Z series multi-port serial adapter device driver.
.El
.Ss Display adapters
.Bl -tag -width 10n -offset ind -compact
.It Xr vga 4
VGA graphics cards.
.El
.Ss Audio devices
.Bl -tag -width 10n -offset ind -compact
.It Xr auich 4
Integrated Intel 82801AA/AB/BA/CA and 440MX sound devices.
.It Xr auixp 4
ATI IXP series integrated AC'97 audio devices.
.It Xr autri 4
Trident 4DWAVE-DX/NX, SiS 7018, ALi M5451 audio devices.
.It Xr auvia 4
Integrated AC'97 audio controller of the
.Tn VIA Technologies VT82C686A ,
.Tn VT8233 ,
VT8235, VT8237 Southbridges.
.It Xr clcs 4
Cirrus Logic CrystalClear CS4280 sound devices.
.It Xr clct 4
Cirrus Logic CrystalClear CS4281 sound devices.
.It Xr cmpci 4
C-Media CMI8x38 sound devices.
.It Xr eap 4
Ensoniq AudioPCI sound devices.
.It Xr emu 4
Creative Labs SBLive! and PCI 512 audio device driver.
.It Xr esa 4
ESS Alegro 1 and Maestro 3 sound devices.
.It Xr eso 4
ESS Solo-1 PCI AudioDrive sound devices.
.It Xr fms 4
Forte Media FM801 sound devices.
.It Xr maestro 4
ESS Maestro 1, 2 and 2E sound devices.
.It Xr neo 4
NeoMagic 256AV/ZX sound devices.
.It Xr sv 4
S3 SonicVibes sound devices.
.It Xr yds 4
Yamaha DS-XG sound devices.
.El
.Ss Radio receiver devices
.Bl -tag -width 10n -offset ind -compact
.It Xr fms 4
SoundForte RadioLink SF64-PCR, SoundForte Quad X-treme SF256-PCP-R and
SoundForte Theatre X-treme 5.1 SF256-PCS-R FM radio devices driver.
.It Xr gtp 4
Gemtek PCI FM radio device driver.
.El
.Ss Miscellaneous devices
.Bl -tag -width 10n -offset ind -compact
.It Xr alipm 4
Acer Labs M7101 Power Management controller.
.It Xr amdiic 4
AMD-8111 SMBus controller
.It Xr amdpm 4
AMD768 Power Management controller.
.It Xr bktr 4
Brooktree Bt848
.Tn PCI
TV tuners and video capture boards.
.It Xr cbb 4
.Tn PCI
Yenta compatible
.Tn CardBus
bridges.
.It Xr ehci 4
USB EHCI host controller.
.It Xr ichiic 4
Intel ICH SMBus controllers.
.It Xr ichwdt 4
Intel 6300ESB ICH watchdog timer.
.It Xr ohci 4
USB OHCI host controller.
.It Xr pcic 4
.Tn PCI
.Tn PCMCIA
controllers, including the Cirrus Logic GD6729.
.It Xr piixpm 4
Intel PIIX and compatible SMBus controllers.
.It Xr ppb 4
Generic
.Tn PCI Ns \- Ns Tn PCI
bridges, including
.Tn PCI
expansion backplanes.
.It Xr puc 4
PCI
.Dq universal
communications cards, containing
.Xr com 4
and
.Xr lpt 4
communications ports.
.It Xr uhci 4
USB UHCI host controller.
.It Xr viapm 4
VIA VT8233/8235/8237 Bus Control and Power Management controller.
.It Xr wdt 4
ICS PCI-WDT500/501 watchdog timer devices.
.El
.Sh IOCTLS
If the kernel is compiled with the
.Va USER_PCICONF
kernel option, the following
.Xr ioctl 2
calls are supported by the
.Nm
driver.
They are defined in the header file
.Aq Pa sys/pciio.h .
.Bl -tag -width 012345678901234
.Pp
.It PCIOCREAD
This
.Xr ioctl 2
reads the
.Tn PCI
configuration registers specified by the passed-in
.Va pci_io
structure.
The
.Va pci_io
structure consists of the following fields:
.Bl -tag -width pi_width
.It pi_sel
A
.Va pcisel
structure which specifies the bus, slot and function the user would like to
query.
.It pi_reg
The
.Tn PCI
configuration register the user would like to access.
.It pi_width
The width, in bytes, of the data the user would like to read.
This value can be only 4.
.It pi_data
The data returned by the kernel.
.El
.It PCIOCWRITE
This
.Xr ioctl 2
allows users to write to the
.Tn PCI
specified in the passed-in
.Va pci_io
structure.
The
.Va pci_io
structure is described above.
The limitations on data width described for
reading registers, above, also apply to writing
.Tn PCI
configuration registers.
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width /dev/pci -compact
.It Pa /dev/pci
Character device for the
.Nm
driver.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr aac 4 ,
.Xr adv 4 ,
.Xr adw 4 ,
.Xr ahc 4 ,
.Xr ahd 4 ,
.Xr alipm 4 ,
.Xr amdiic 4 ,
.Xr amdpm 4 ,
.Xr ami 4 ,
.Xr an 4 ,
.Xr apecs 4 ,
.Xr art 4 ,
.Xr ath 4 ,
.Xr atw 4 ,
.Xr auich 4 ,
.Xr auixp 4 ,
.Xr autri 4 ,
.Xr auvia 4 ,
.Xr bce 4 ,
.Xr bge 4 ,
.Xr bha 4 ,
.Xr bktr 4 ,
.Xr cac 4 ,
.Xr cardbus 4 ,
.Xr cia 4 ,
.Xr ciss 4 ,
.Xr clcs 4 ,
.Xr clct 4 ,
.Xr cmpci 4 ,
.Xr cy 4 ,
.Xr cz 4 ,
.Xr dc 4 ,
.Xr de 4 ,
.Xr dino 4 ,
.Xr dpt 4 ,
.Xr eap 4 ,
.Xr ehci 4 ,
.Xr eisa 4 ,
.Xr em 4 ,
.Xr emu 4 ,
.\" no manpage .Xr en 4 ,
.Xr ep 4 ,
.Xr epic 4 ,
.Xr esa 4 ,
.Xr eso 4 ,
.Xr fms 4 ,
.Xr footbridge 4 ,
.Xr fpa 4 ,
.Xr fxp 4 ,
.Xr gdt 4 ,
.Xr gtp 4 ,
.Xr hifn 4 ,
.Xr ichiic 4 ,
.Xr ichwdt 4 ,
.Xr iha 4 ,
.Xr intro 4 ,
.Xr iop 4 ,
.Xr ipw 4 ,
.Xr irongate 4 ,
.Xr isa 4 ,
.Xr isapnp 4 ,
.Xr ises 4 ,
.Xr isp 4 ,
.Xr iwi 4 ,
.Xr lca 4 ,
.Xr le 4 ,
.Xr lge 4 ,
.Xr lmc 4 ,
.Xr lofn 4 ,
.Xr maestro 4 ,
.\" no manpage .Xr mpcpcibr 4
.Xr mpt 4 ,
.Xr ne 4 ,
.Xr neo 4 ,
.Xr nge 4 ,
.Xr noct 4 ,
.Xr nofn 4 ,
.Xr ohci 4 ,
.Xr options 4 ,
.Xr pchb 4 ,
.Xr pcib 4 ,
.Xr pcic 4 ,
.Xr pcmcia 4 ,
.Xr pcscp 4 ,
.Xr piixpm 4 ,
.Xr ppb 4 ,
.Xr psycho 4 ,
.Xr puc 4 ,
.Xr ral 4 ,
.Xr re 4 ,
.Xr rl 4 ,
.Xr rtw 4 ,
.Xr safe 4 ,
.Xr san 4 ,
.Xr schizo 4 ,
.Xr sf 4 ,
.Xr siop 4 ,
.Xr sis 4 ,
.Xr sk 4 ,
.Xr ste 4 ,
.Xr stge 4 ,
.Xr sv 4 ,
.Xr ti 4 ,
.Xr tl 4 ,
.Xr trm 4 ,
.Xr tsp 4 ,
.Xr twe 4 ,
.Xr txp 4 ,
.Xr ubsec 4 ,
.Xr uhci 4 ,
.Xr usb 4 ,
.Xr vga 4 ,
.Xr vge 4 ,
.Xr vr 4 ,
.Xr wb 4 ,
.Xr wdt 4 ,
.Xr wi 4 ,
.Xr xl 4 ,
.Xr yds 4
.Sh HISTORY
The machine-independent
.Tn PCI
subsystem appeared in
.Ox 1.2 .
Support for device listing and matching was re-implemented by
Kenneth Merry, and first appeared in
.Fx 3.0 .
