.\"	$OpenBSD: pppoe.4,v 1.7 2005/10/06 15:30:50 jmc Exp $
.\"	$NetBSD: pppoe.4,v 1.26 2003/10/02 07:06:36 wiz Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2002 The NetBSD Foundation, Inc.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to The NetBSD Foundation
.\" by Martin Husemann <martin@NetBSD.org>.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"        This product includes software developed by the NetBSD
.\"        Foundation, Inc. and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of The NetBSD Foundation nor the names of its
.\"    contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived
.\"    from this software without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE NETBSD FOUNDATION, INC. AND CONTRIBUTORS
.\" ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED
.\" TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
.\" PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE FOUNDATION OR CONTRIBUTORS
.\" BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
.\" INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
.\" CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
.\" POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd October 1, 2003
.Dt PPPOE 4
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm pppoe
.Nd PPP over Ethernet protocol network interface
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm pseudo-device pppoe
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
interface encapsulates
.Em Point-to-Point Protocol (PPP)
packets inside Ethernet frames as defined by RFC 2516.
.Pp
This is often used to connect a router via a DSL modem to
an access concentrator.
The
.Nm
interface does not by itself transmit or receive frames,
but needs an Ethernet interface to do so.
This Ethernet interface is connected to the
.Nm
interface via
.Xr ifconfig 8 .
The Ethernet interface needs to be marked UP, but does not need to have an
IP address.
.Pp
There are two basic modes of operation, controlled via the
.Em link1
switch.
The default mode,
.Em link1
not being set, tries to keep the configured session open all the
time.
If the session is disconnected, a new connection attempt is started
immediately.
The
.Dq dial on demand
mode, selected by setting
.Em link1 ,
only establishes a connection when data is being sent to the interface.
.Pp
Before a
.Nm
interface is usable, it needs to be configured.
The following steps are necessary:
.Bl -bullet
.It
Create the interface.
.It
Connect an Ethernet interface.
This interface is used for the physical communication.
As noted above it must be marked UP, but need not have an IP address.
.It
Configure authentication.
The PPP session needs to identify the client to the peer.
For more details on the available options see
.Xr spppcontrol 8 .
.El
.Pp
This all is typically accomplished using an
.Pa /etc/hostname.pppoe0
file.
.Sh EXAMPLES
A typical
.Pa /etc/hostname.pppoe0
file looks like this:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
pppoedev ne0
!/sbin/ifconfig ne0 up
!/usr/sbin/spppcontrol \e$if myauthproto=pap myauthname=testcaller \e
	myauthkey=donttell
!/sbin/ifconfig \e$if inet 0.0.0.0 0.0.0.1 netmask 0xffffffff
!/sbin/route add default 0.0.0.1
up
.Ed
.Pp
Since this is a PPP interface, the addresses assigned to the interface
may change during PPP negotiation.
There is no fine grained control available for deciding
which addresses are acceptable and which are not.
For the local side and the remote address there is exactly one choice:
hard coded address or wildcard.
If a real address is assigned to one side of the connection,
PPP negotiation will only agree to exactly this address.
If one side is wildcarded,
every address suggested by the peer will be accepted.
.Pp
To wildcard the local address set it to 0.0.0.0; to wildcard the remote
address set it to 0.0.0.1.
.Sh KERNEL OPTIONS
A
.Nm
enabled kernel will not interfere with other PPPoE implementations
running on the same machine.
Under special circumstances
(details below) this is not desirable, so the
.Nm
driver can be told to kill all unknown PPPoE sessions
received by the Ethernet interface used for a configured
.Nm
interface.
To do this,
add the following to your kernel config file:
.Pp
.Dl option PPPOE_TERM_UNKNOWN_SESSIONS
.Pp
Note that this will break all userland PPPoE
implementations using the same Ethernet interface!
.Pp
This option is only useful if you have a static IP address assigned and
your ISP does not use LCP echo requests to monitor the link status.
After a crash or power failure the peer device still tries to send data to
the no longer active session on your computer, and might refuse to
reestablish a new connection, because there already is an open session.
On receipt of such packets, the
.Nm
driver with this option set will send a PADT packet
(request to terminate the session).
The peer will immediately disconnect
the orphaned session and allow a new one to be established.
.Pp
If the kernel is compiled with option
.Dv PPPOE_SERVER ,
there are two modes of connection, controlled via the
.Em link0
switch.
The default mode,
.Em link0
not being set, is client mode.
The
.Dq PPPoE server
mode, selected by setting
.Em link0 ,
is to wait for incoming PPPoE sessions.
.Sh MTU/MSS ISSUES
Problems can arise on machines with private IPs connecting to the Internet
via a machine running both
Network Address Translation (NAT)
and
.Nm .
Standard Ethernet uses a
Maximum Transmission Unit (MTU)
of 1500 bytes,
whereas PPPoE mechanisms need a further 8 bytes of overhead.
This leaves a maximum MTU of 1492.
.Nm
sets the MTU on its interface to 1492 as a matter of course.
However,
machines connecting on a private LAN will still have their MTUs set to 1500,
causing conflict.
.Pp
Userland
.Xr pppoe 8
users do not have to worry about this issue, since
.Xr ppp 8
itself has an option,
.Dq mssfixup ,
which is enabled by default and takes care of this.
Kernel
.Nm
users have to rely on other methods:
.Bl -bullet
.It
Using a packet filter,
the
Maximum Segment Size (MSS)
can be set (clamped) to the required value.
The following rule in
.Xr pf.conf 5
would set the MSS to 1440:
.Pp
.Dl scrub out on pppoe0 max-mss 1440
.Pp
Although in theory the maximum MSS over a PPPoE interface
is 1452 bytes,
1440 appears to be a safer bet.
Note that setting the MSS this way can have undesirable effects,
such as reducing TCP/IP throughput,
and interfering with the OS detection features of
.Xr pf 4 .
.It
Setting the MTU on all interfaces being NAT'ed to 1492,
instead of the Ethernet default, 1500.
This can be done using
.Xr ifconfig 8 .
The following would set the MTU to 1492 on interface bge0:
.Pp
.Dl # ifconfig bge0 mtu 1492
.Pp
Unfortunately not all interfaces support setting the MTU at this time.
.El
.Pp
See
.Xr pf.conf 5
for more information on MTU, MSS, and NAT.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr hostname.if 5 ,
.Xr pf.conf 5 ,
.Xr ifconfig 8 ,
.Xr ppp 8 ,
.Xr pppoe 8 ,
.Xr spppcontrol 8
.Rs
.%R RFC 2516
.%T A Method for Transmitting PPP Over Ethernet (PPPoE)
.%D February 1999
.Re
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
device first appeared in
.Ox 3.7 .
.Sh BUGS
This implementation is client side only.
.Pp
It is important to specify
.Dq Li netmask 0xffffffff
to
.Xr ifconfig 8 .
If the netmask is unspecified, it will be set to 8 when 0.0.0.0 is
configured to the interface, and it will persist after negotiation.
.Pp
The presence of a
.Xr mygate 5
file will interfere with the routing table.
Make sure this file is either empty or does not exist.
