.\"	$OpenBSD: route.4,v 1.18 2004/06/08 14:50:38 cedric Exp $
.\"	$NetBSD: route.4,v 1.3 1994/11/30 16:22:31 jtc Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)route.4	8.6 (Berkeley) 4/19/94
.\"
.Dd April 19, 1994
.Dt ROUTE 4
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm route
.Nd kernel packet forwarding database
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Fd #include <sys/socket.h>
.Fd #include <net/if.h>
.Fd #include <net/route.h>
.Ft int
.Fn socket PF_ROUTE SOCK_RAW "int family"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Ox
provides some packet routing facilities.
The kernel maintains a routing information database, which
is used in selecting the appropriate network interface when
transmitting packets.
.Pp
A user process (or possibly multiple co-operating processes)
maintains this database by sending messages over a special kind
of socket.
This supplants fixed size
.Xr ioctl 2 Ns 's
used in earlier releases.
Routing table changes may only be carried out by the super user.
.Pp
The operating system may spontaneously emit routing messages in response
to external events, such as receipt of a re-direct, or failure to
locate a suitable route for a request.
The message types are described in greater detail below.
.Pp
Routing database entries come in two flavors: for a specific
host, or for all hosts on a generic subnetwork (as specified
by a bit mask and value under the mask.
The effect of wildcard or default route may be achieved by using
a mask of all zeros, and there may be hierarchical routes.
.Pp
When the system is booted and addresses are assigned
to the network interfaces, each protocol family
installs a routing table entry for each interface when it is ready for traffic.
Normally the protocol specifies the route
through each interface as a
.Dq direct
connection to the destination host
or network.
If the route is direct, the transport layer of a protocol family usually
requests the packet be sent to the same host specified in the packet.
Otherwise, the interface is requested to address the packet to the gateway
listed in the routing entry (i.e., the packet is forwarded).
.Pp
When routing a packet,
the kernel will attempt to find
the most specific route matching the destination.
(If there are two different mask and value-under-the-mask pairs
that match, the more specific is the one with more bits in the mask.
A route to a host is regarded as being supplied with a mask of
as many ones as there are bits in the destination).
If no entry is found, the destination is declared to be unreachable,
and a routing\-miss message is generated if there are any
listeners on the routing control socket described below.
.Pp
A wildcard routing entry is specified with a zero
destination address value, and a mask of all zeroes.
Wildcard routes will be used
when the system fails to find other routes matching the
destination.
The combination of wildcard routes and routing redirects can provide
an economical mechanism for routing traffic.
.Pp
One opens the channel for passing routing control messages
by using the socket call shown in
.Sx SYNOPSIS
above:
.Pp
The
.Fa family
parameter may be
.Dv AF_UNSPEC
which will provide
routing information for all address families, or can be restricted
to a specific address family by specifying which one is desired.
There can be more than one routing socket open per system.
.Pp
Messages are formed by a header followed by a small
number of sockaddrs (now variable length particularly
in the
.Tn ISO
case), interpreted by position, and delimited
by the new length entry in the sockaddr.
An example of a message with four addresses might be an
.Tn ISO
redirect:
Destination, Netmask, Gateway, and Author of the redirect.
The interpretation of which addresses are present is given by a
bit mask within the header, and the sequence is least significant
to most significant bit within the vector.
.Pp
Any messages sent to the kernel are returned, and copies are sent
to all interested listeners.
The kernel will provide the process ID
for the sender, and the sender may use an additional sequence
field to distinguish between outstanding messages.
However, message replies may be lost when kernel buffers are exhausted.
.Pp
The kernel may reject certain messages, and will indicate this
by filling in the
.Ar rtm_errno
field.
The routing code returns
.Dv EEXIST
if
requested to duplicate an existing entry,
.Dv ESRCH
if
requested to delete a non-existent entry,
or
.Dv ENOBUFS
if insufficient resources were available
to install a new route.
In the current implementation, all routing processes run locally,
and the values for
.Ar rtm_errno
are available through the normal
.Va errno
mechanism, even if the routing reply message is lost.
.Pp
A process may avoid the expense of reading replies to
its own messages by issuing a
.Xr setsockopt 2
call indicating that the
.Dv SO_USELOOPBACK
option
at the
.Dv SOL_SOCKET
level is to be turned off.
A process may ignore all messages from the routing socket
by doing a
.Xr shutdown 2
system call for further input.
.Pp
If a route is in use when it is deleted,
the routing entry will be marked down and removed from the routing table,
but the resources associated with it will not
be reclaimed until all references to it are released.
User processes can obtain information about the routing
entry to a specific destination by using a
.Dv RTM_GET
message, or via the
.Dv PF_ROUTE
.Xr sysctl 3 .
.Pp
Messages include:
.Bd -literal
#define RTM_ADD		0x1	/* Add Route */
#define RTM_DELETE	0x2	/* Delete Route */
#define RTM_CHANGE	0x3	/* Change Metrics or flags */
#define RTM_GET		0x4	/* Report Metrics */
#define RTM_LOSING	0x5	/* Kernel Suspects Partitioning */
#define RTM_REDIRECT	0x6	/* Told to use different route */
#define RTM_MISS	0x7	/* Lookup failed on this address */
#define RTM_LOCK	0x8	/* fix specified metrics */
#define RTM_OLDADD	0x9	/* caused by SIOCADDRT */
#define RTM_OLDDEL	0xa	/* caused by SIOCDELRT */
#define RTM_RESOLVE	0xb	/* req to resolve dst to LL addr */
#define RTM_NEWADDR	0xc	/* address being added to iface */
#define RTM_DELADDR	0xd	/* address being removed from iface */
#define RTM_IFINFO	0xe	/* iface going up/down etc. */
#define RTM_IFANNOUNCE	0xf	/* iface arrival/departure */
.Ed
.Pp
A message header consists of one of the following:
.Bd -literal
struct rt_msghdr {
	u_short	rtm_msglen;	/* to skip over non-understood messages */
	u_char	rtm_version;	/* future binary compatibility */
	u_char	rtm_type;	/* message type */
	u_short	rtm_index;	/* index for associated ifp */
	int	rtm_flags;	/* flags, incl. kern & message, eg DONE */
	int	rtm_addrs;	/* bitmask identifying sockaddrs in msg */
	pid_t	rtm_pid;	/* identify sender */
	int	rtm_seq;	/* for sender to identify action */
	int	rtm_errno;	/* why failed */
	int	rtm_use;	/* from rtentry */
	u_long	rtm_inits;	/* which metrics we are initializing */
	struct	rt_metrics rtm_rmx; /* metrics themselves */
};
.Ed
.Bd -literal
struct if_msghdr {
	u_short	ifm_msglen;	/* to skip over non-understood messages */
	u_char	ifm_version;	/* future binary compatibility */
	u_char	ifm_type;	/* message type */
	int	ifm_addrs;	/* like rtm_addrs */
	int	ifm_flags;	/* value of if_flags */
	u_short	ifm_index;	/* index for associated ifp */
	struct	if_data ifm_data;/* statistics and other data about if */
};
.Ed
.Bd -literal
struct ifa_msghdr {
	u_short	ifam_msglen;	/* to skip over non-understood messages */
	u_char	ifam_version;	/* future binary compatibility */
	u_char	ifam_type;	/* message type */
	int	ifam_addrs;	/* like rtm_addrs */
	int	ifam_flags;	/* value of ifa_flags */
	u_short	ifam_index;	/* index for associated ifp */
	int	ifam_metric;	/* value of ifa_metric */
};
.Ed
.Bd -literal
struct if_announcemsghdr {
	u_short	ifan_msglen;	/* to skip over non-understood messages */
	u_char	ifan_version;	/* future binary compatibility */
	u_char	ifan_type;	/* message type */
	u_short	ifan_index;	/* index for associated ifp */
	char	ifan_name[IFNAMSIZ];	/* if name, e.g. "en0" */
	u_short	ifan_what;	/* what type of announcement */
};
.Ed
.Pp
The
.Dv RTM_IFINFO
message uses a
.Ar if_msghdr
header, the
.Dv RTM_NEWADDR
and
.Dv RTM_DELADDR
messages use a
.Ar ifa_msghdr
header,
the
.Dv RTM_IFANNOUNCE
message uses a
.Ar if_announcemsghdr
header,
and all other messages use the
.Ar rt_msghdr
header.
.Pp
The metrics structure is:
.Bd -literal
struct rt_metrics {
	u_long	rmx_locks;	/* Kernel must leave these values alone */
	u_long	rmx_mtu;	/* MTU for this path */
	u_long	rmx_hopcount;	/* max hops expected */
	u_long	rmx_expire;	/* lifetime for route, e.g. redirect */
	u_long	rmx_recvpipe;	/* inbound delay-bandwidth product */
	u_long	rmx_sendpipe;	/* outbound delay-bandwidth product */
	u_long	rmx_ssthresh;	/* outbound gateway buffer limit */
	u_long	rmx_rtt;	/* estimated round trip time */
	u_long	rmx_rttvar;	/* estimated rtt variance */
	u_long	rmx_pksent;	/* packets sent using this route */
};
.Ed
Only rmx_mtu, rmx_expire, rmx_pksent, and rmx_locks are used by the kernel
routing table.
All other values will be ignored when inserting them into the kernel and are
set to zero in routing messages sent by the kernel.
They are left for compatibility reasons with other systems.
.Pp
Flags include the values:
.Bd -literal
#define	RTF_UP        0x1       /* route usable */
#define	RTF_GATEWAY   0x2       /* destination is a gateway */
#define	RTF_HOST      0x4       /* host entry (net otherwise) */
#define	RTF_REJECT    0x8       /* host or net unreachable */
#define	RTF_DYNAMIC   0x10      /* created dynamically (by redirect) */
#define	RTF_MODIFIED  0x20      /* modified dynamically (by redirect) */
#define	RTF_DONE      0x40      /* message confirmed */
#define	RTF_MASK      0x80      /* subnet mask present */
#define	RTF_CLONING   0x100     /* generate new routes on use */
#define	RTF_XRESOLVE  0x200     /* external daemon resolves name */
#define	RTF_LLINFO    0x400     /* generated by ARP or ESIS */
#define	RTF_STATIC    0x800     /* manually added */
#define	RTF_BLACKHOLE 0x1000    /* just discard pkts (during updates) */
#define	RTF_PROTO3    0x2000    /* protocol specific routing flag */
#define	RTF_PROTO2    0x4000    /* protocol specific routing flag */
#define	RTF_PROTO1    0x8000    /* protocol specific routing flag */
#define	RTF_CLONED    0x10000   /* this is a cloned route */
#define RTF_SOURCE    0x20000   /* this route has a source selector */
.Ed
.Pp
Specifiers for metric values in rmx_locks and rtm_inits are:
.Bd -literal
#define RTV_MTU		0x1	/* init or lock _mtu */
#define RTV_HOPCOUNT	0x2	/* init or lock _hopcount */
#define RTV_EXPIRE	0x4	/* init or lock _hopcount */
#define RTV_RPIPE	0x8	/* init or lock _recvpipe */
#define RTV_SPIPE	0x10	/* init or lock _sendpipe */
#define RTV_SSTHRESH	0x20	/* init or lock _ssthresh */
#define RTV_RTT		0x40	/* init or lock _rtt */
#define RTV_RTTVAR	0x80	/* init or lock _rttvar */
.Ed
Only RTV_MTU and RTV_EXPIRE should be used all other flags are ignored.
.Pp
Specifiers for which addresses are present in the messages are:
.Bd -literal
#define RTA_DST		0x1	/* destination sockaddr present */
#define RTA_GATEWAY	0x2	/* gateway sockaddr present */
#define RTA_NETMASK	0x4	/* netmask sockaddr present */
#define RTA_GENMASK	0x8	/* cloning mask sockaddr present */
#define RTA_IFP		0x10	/* interface name sockaddr present */
#define RTA_IFA		0x20	/* interface addr sockaddr present */
#define RTA_AUTHOR	0x40	/* sockaddr for author of redirect */
#define RTA_BRD		0x80	/* for NEWADDR, bcast or p-p dest addr */
#define RTA_SRC		0x100	/* source sockaddr present */
#define RTA_SRCMASK	0x200	/* source netmask present */
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr socket 2 ,
.Xr sysctl 3
