.\"	$OpenBSD: rt.4,v 1.13 2007/05/31 19:19:51 jmc Exp $
.\"	$RuOBSD: rt.4,v 1.3 2001/10/26 05:38:43 form Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001 Vladimir Popov <jumbo@narod.ru>
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING,
.\" BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF
.\" USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON
.\" ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: May 31 2007 $
.Dt RT 4
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm rt
.Nd AIMS Lab Radiotrack FM radio device
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Cd "rt0   at isa? port 0x30c"
.Cd "rt1   at isa? port 0x20c"
.Cd "rt*   at isapnp?"
.Cd "radio* at rt?"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
driver provides support for the AIMS Lab Radiotrack FM radio tuners and
compatible \- RadioReveal RA300 FM radio tuners and tuners at
SoundForte RadioX SF16-FMI (Creative ViBRA16C PnP).
.Pp
The Radiotrack is a stereo FM tuner that can tune in the range
87.5 \- 108.0 MHz, report signal status on the current frequency, and
force audio output to mono.
.Pp
The card is based on the LM7000 chip; see
.Xr radio 4
for details.
.Pp
The Radiotrack cards take only one I/O port.
The I/O port is set by the driver to the value specified in
the configuration file and must be either 0x20c or 0x30c.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr intro 4 ,
.Xr isa 4 ,
.Xr isapnp 4 ,
.Xr radio 4 ,
.Xr radio 9
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
device driver appeared in
.Ox 3.0 .
.Sh AUTHORS
.An -nosplit
The
.Nm
driver was written by
.An Vladimir Popov Aq jumbo@narod.ru
and
.An Maxim Tsyplakov Aq tm@oganer.net .
The man page was written by
.An Vladimir Popov Aq jumbo@narod.ru .
.Sh BUGS
Support for the SF16-FMI cards is rather ugly, the driver can not
determine signal state and force audio output to mono.
.Pp
It is impossible to determine which frequency the card is tuned to.
Thus, the driver will report an internally stored value even if it is not
correct (e.g. tuning was done through the direct I/O access).
