.\"	$OpenBSD: rtw.4,v 1.20 2005/09/23 10:24:51 grunk Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2004 Jonathan Gray <jsg@openbsd.org>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd December 29, 2004
.Dt RTW 4
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm rtw
.Nd Realtek RTL8180L IEEE 802.11b wireless network driver
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Cd "rtw* at cardbus?"
.Cd "rtw* at pci?"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
driver supports PCI/CardBus 802.11b wireless adapters based on the
Realtek RTL8180L.
.Pp
A variety of radio tranceivers can be found in these devices, including
the Philips SA2400A, Maxim MAX2820, and GCT GRF5101, though not all of them
are currently supported.
.Pp
These are the modes the
.Nm
driver can operate in:
.Bl -tag -width "IBSS-masterXX"
.It BSS mode
Also known as
.Em infrastructure
mode, this is used when associating with an access point, through
which all traffic passes.
This mode is the default.
.It IBSS mode
Also known as
.Em IEEE ad-hoc
mode or
.Em peer-to-peer
mode.
This is the standardized method of operating without an access point.
Stations associate with a service set.
However, actual connections between stations are peer-to-peer.
.It Host AP
In this mode the driver acts as an access point (base station)
for other cards.
.It monitor mode
In this mode the driver is able to receive packets without
associating with an access point.
This disables the internal receive filter and enables the card to
capture packets from networks which it wouldn't normally have access to,
or to scan for access points.
.El
.Pp
.Nm
supports software WEP.
Wired Equivalent Privacy (WEP) is the de facto encryption standard
for wireless networks.
It can be typically configured in one of three modes:
no encryption; 40-bit encryption; or 104-bit encryption.
Unfortunately, due to serious weaknesses in WEP protocol
it is strongly recommended that it not be used as the
sole mechanism to secure wireless communication.
WEP is not enabled by default.
.Sh CONFIGURATION
The
.Nm
driver can be configured at runtime with
.Xr ifconfig 8
or on boot with
.Xr hostname.if 5
using the following parameters:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Cm bssid Ar bssid
Set the desired BSSID.
.It Fl bssid
Unset the desired BSSID.
The interface will automatically select a BSSID in this mode, which is
the default.
.It Cm chan Ar n
Set the channel (radio frequency) to be used by the driver based on
the given channel ID
.Ar n .
.It Fl chan
Unset the desired channel to be used by the driver.
The driver will automatically select a channel in this mode, which is
the default.
.It Cm media Ar media
The
.Nm
driver supports the following
.Ar media
types:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width autoselect -compact
.It Cm autoselect
Enable autoselection of the media type and options.
.It Cm DS1
Set 802.11b DS 1Mbps operation.
.It Cm DS2
Set 802.11b DS 2Mbps operation.
.It Cm DS5
Set 802.11b DS 5.5Mbps operation.
.It Cm DS11
Set 802.11b DS 11Mbps operation.
.El
.It Cm mediaopt Ar opts
The
.Nm
driver supports the following media options:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width monitor -compact
.It Cm hostap
Select Host AP operation.
.It Cm ibss
Select IBSS operation.
.It Cm monitor
Select monitor mode.
.El
.It Fl mediaopt Ar opts
Disable the specified media options on the driver and return it to the
default mode of operation (BSS).
.It Cm nwid Ar id
Set the network ID.
The
.Ar id
can either be any text string up to 32 characters in length,
or a series of hexadecimal digits up to 64 digits.
An empty
.Ar id
string allows the interface to connect to any available access points.
By default the
.Nm
driver uses an empty string.
Note that network ID is synonymous with Extended Service Set ID (ESSID).
.It Cm nwkey Ar key
Enable WEP encryption using the specified
.Ar key .
The
.Ar key
can either be a string, a series of hexadecimal digits (preceded by
.Sq 0x ) ,
or a set of keys of the form
.Dq n:k1,k2,k3,k4 ,
where
.Sq n
specifies which of the keys will be used for transmitted packets,
and the four keys,
.Dq k1
through
.Dq k4 ,
are configured as WEP keys.
If a set of keys is specified, a comma
.Pq Sq \&,
within the key must be escaped with a backslash.
Note that if multiple keys are used, their order must be the same within
the network.
.Nm
is capable of using both 40-bit (5 characters or 10 hexadecimal digits)
or 104-bit (13 characters or 26 hexadecimal digits) keys.
.It Fl nwkey
Disable WEP encryption.
This is the default mode of operation.
.It Cm nwkey persist
Enable WEP encryption with the persistent key stored in the network card.
.El
.Sh HARDWARE
The following adapters should work:
.Pp
.Bl -column "Card                        " "Bus" -compact -offset 6n
.It Em "Card	Bus"
.\".It Li "Acer Aspire 1357 LMi" Ta Mini PCI
.\".It Li "Belkin F5D6001 V3" Ta PCI
.It Li "Belkin F5D6020 V3" Ta CardBus
.It Li "Buffalo WLI-CB-B11" Ta CardBus
.It Li "Corega CG-WLCB11V3" Ta CardBus
.\".It Li "D-Link DWL-510" Ta PCI
.\".It Li "D-Link DWL-520 rev D" Ta PCI
.It Li "D-Link DWL-610" Ta CardBus
.\".It Li "Encore ENLWI-PCI1-NT" Ta PCI
.\".It Li "Gigabyte GN-WLMR101" Ta PCI
.It Li "Level-One WPC-0101" Ta CardBus
.It Li "Linksys WPC11 v4" Ta CardBus
.It Li "Netgear MA521" Ta CardBus
.It Li "Ovislink AirLive WL-1120PCM" Ta CardBus
.It Li "Planet WL-3553" Ta CardBus
.It Li "TRENDnet TEW-226PC" Ta CardBus
.\".It Li "TRENDnet TEW-288PI" Ta PCI
.It Li "VCTnet PC-11B1" Ta CardBus
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
The following
.Xr hostname.if 5
example configures rtw0 to join whatever network is available on boot,
using WEP key
.Dq 0x1deadbeef1 ,
channel 11, obtaining an IP address using DHCP:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
dhcp NONE NONE NONE nwkey 0x1deadbeef1 chan 11
.Ed
.Pp
The following
.Xr hostname.if 5
example creates a host-based access point on boot:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
inet 192.168.1.1 255.255.255.0 NONE media autoselect \e
	mediaopt hostap nwid my_net chan 11
.Ed
.Pp
Configure rtw0 for WEP, using hex key
.Dq 0x1deadbeef1 :
.Bd -literal -offset indent
# ifconfig rtw0 nwkey 0x1deadbeef1
.Ed
.Pp
Return rtw0 to its default settings:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
# ifconfig rtw0 -bssid -chan media autoselect \e
	nwid "" -nwkey
.Ed
.Pp
Join an existing BSS network,
.Dq my_net :
.Bd -literal -offset indent
# ifconfig rtw0 192.168.1.1 netmask 0xffffff00 nwid my_net
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr arp 4 ,
.Xr cardbus 4 ,
.Xr ifmedia 4 ,
.Xr intro 4 ,
.Xr netintro 4 ,
.Xr pci 4 ,
.Xr hostname.if 5 ,
.Xr hostapd 8 ,
.Xr ifconfig 8
.Rs
.%T Realtek
.%O http://www.realtek.com.tw
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
device driver first appeared in
.Ox 3.7 .
.Sh AUTHORS
The
.Nm
driver was written by
.An David Young
.Aq dyoung@NetBSD.org
and ported to
.Ox
by
.An Jonathan Gray Aq jsg@openbsd.org .
.Sh BUGS
Only the Philips SA2400A and Maxim MAX2820 RF transceivers are known to work.
Devices incorporating a GCT RF transceiver are not supported due to a lack of
documentation from GCT.
.Pp
While PCI devices will attach most of them are not able to transmit.
