.\" $OpenBSD: run.4,v 1.33 2011/01/10 16:59:05 damien Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008 Damien Bergamini <damien.bergamini@free.fr>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: January 10 2011 $
.Dt RUN 4
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm run
.Nd Ralink Technology USB IEEE 802.11a/g/n wireless network device
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Cd "run* at uhub? port ?"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
driver supports USB 2.0 wireless adapters based on the Ralink RT2700U,
RT2800U and RT3000U chipsets.
.Pp
The RT2700U chipset consists of two integrated chips, an RT2770 MAC/BBP and
an RT2720 (1T2R) or RT2750 (dual-band 1T2R) radio transceiver.
.Pp
The RT2800U chipset consists of two integrated chips, an RT2870 MAC/BBP and
an RT2820 (2T3R) or RT2850 (dual-band 2T3R) radio transceiver.
.Pp
The RT3000U is a single-chip solution based on an RT3070 MAC/BBP and
an RT3020 (1T1R), RT3021 (1T2R), RT3022 (2T2R) or RT3052 (dual-band 2T2R)
radio transceiver.
.Pp
These are the modes the
.Nm
driver can operate in:
.Bl -tag -width "IBSS-masterXX"
.It BSS mode
Also known as
.Em infrastructure
mode, this is used when associating with an access point, through
which all traffic passes.
This mode is the default.
.It monitor mode
In this mode the driver is able to receive packets without
associating with an access point.
This disables the internal receive filter and enables the card to
capture packets from networks which it wouldn't normally have access to,
or to scan for access points.
.El
.Pp
The
.Nm
driver can be configured to use
Wired Equivalent Privacy (WEP) or
Wi-Fi Protected Access (WPA-PSK and WPA2-PSK).
WPA is the de facto encryption standard for wireless networks.
It is strongly recommended that WEP
not be used as the sole mechanism
to secure wireless communication,
due to serious weaknesses in it.
The
.Nm
driver offloads both encryption and decryption of data frames to the
hardware for the WEP40, WEP104, TKIP(+MIC) and CCMP ciphers.
.Pp
The
.Nm
driver can be configured at runtime with
.Xr ifconfig 8
or on boot with
.Xr hostname.if 5 .
.Sh FILES
The driver needs the following firmware files,
which are loaded when an interface is brought up:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width Ds -offset indent -compact
.It /etc/firmware/run-rt2870
.It /etc/firmware/run-rt3071
.El
.Sh HARDWARE
The following adapters should work:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width Ds -offset indent -compact
.It Airlink101 AWLL6090
.It ASUS USB-N11
.It ASUS USB-N13
.It ASUS WL-160N
.It Belkin F5D8051 ver 3000
.It Belkin F5D8053
.It Belkin F5D8055
.It Belkin F6D4050 ver 1
.It Belkin F6D4050 ver 2
.It Buffalo WLI-UC-AG300N
.It Buffalo WLI-UC-G300N
.It Buffalo WLI-UC-GN
.It Buffalo WLI-UC-GNHP
.It Buffalo WLI-UC-GNM
.It Corega CG-WLUSB2GNL
.It Corega CG-WLUSB2GNR
.It Corega CG-WLUSB300AGN
.It Corega CG-WLUSB300GNM
.It D-Link DWA-130 rev B1
.It D-Link DWA-140
.It DrayTek Vigor N61
.It Edimax EW-7711UAn
.It Edimax EW-7711UTn
.It Edimax EW-7717Un
.It Edimax EW-7718Un
.It Gigabyte GN-WB30N
.It Gigabyte GN-WB31N
.It Gigabyte GN-WB32L
.It Hawking HWDN1
.It Hawking HWUN1
.It Hawking HWUN2
.It Hercules HWNU-300
.It Linksys WUSB54GC v3
.It Linksys WUSB600N
.It Logitec gLAN-W150NU2BK
.It Mvix Nubbin MS-811N
.It Planex GW-USMicroN
.It Planex GW-US300MiniS
.It Sitecom WL-182
.It Sitecom WL-188
.It Sitecom WL-301
.It Sitecom WL-302
.It Sitecom WL-315
.It SMC SMCWUSBS-N2
.It Sweex LW153
.It Sweex LW303
.It Sweex LW313
.It Unex DNUR-81
.It Unex DNUR-82
.It ZyXEL NWD210N
.It ZyXEL NWD2205
.It ZyXEL NWD270N
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
The following
.Xr hostname.if 5
example configures run0 to join whatever network is available on boot,
using WEP key
.Dq 0x1deadbeef1 ,
channel 11, obtaining an IP address using DHCP:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
dhcp NONE NONE NONE nwkey 0x1deadbeef1 chan 11
.Ed
.Pp
Configure run0 to join network
.Dq my_net
using WPA with passphrase
.Dq my_passphrase :
.Bd -literal -offset indent
# ifconfig run0 nwid my_net wpakey my_passphrase
.Ed
.Pp
Join an existing BSS network,
.Dq my_net :
.Bd -literal -offset indent
# ifconfig run0 192.168.1.1 netmask 0xffffff00 nwid my_net
.Ed
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
.Bl -diag
.It "run%d: error %d, could not read firmware %s"
For some reason, the driver was unable to read the microcode file from the
filesystem.
The file might be missing or corrupted.
.It "run%d: could not load 8051 microcode"
An error occurred while attempting to upload the microcode to the onboard 8051
microcontroller unit.
.It "run%d: device timeout"
A frame dispatched to the hardware for transmission did not complete in time.
The driver will reset the hardware.
This should not happen.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr arp 4 ,
.Xr ifmedia 4 ,
.Xr intro 4 ,
.Xr netintro 4 ,
.Xr usb 4 ,
.Xr hostname.if 5 ,
.Xr ifconfig 8
.Pp
Ralink Technology:
.Pa http://www.ralinktech.com/
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
driver first appeared in
.Ox 4.5 .
.Sh AUTHORS
The
.Nm
driver was written by
.An Damien Bergamini Aq damien@openbsd.org .
.Sh CAVEATS
The
.Nm
driver does not support any of the 802.11n capabilities offered by the
RT2800 and RT3000 chipsets.
Additional work is required in
.Xr ieee80211 9
before those features can be supported.
