.\"	$OpenBSD: safte.4,v 1.1 2005/07/25 23:34:45 dlg Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) David Gwynne <dlg@openbsd.org>
.\" 
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.Dd July 25, 2005
.Dt SAFTE 4
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm safte
.Nd SCSI Accessed Fault-Tolerant Enclosure
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Cd "safte* at scsibus?"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
driver provides support for the hardware monitors found in SCSI Accessed
Fault-Tolerant Enclosures.
The hardware monitor is used with the
.Xr sysctl 8
interface.
.Pp
SAF-TE compliant devices can provide an arbitrary set of sensors from the
following types:
.Bl -column "Sensor" "Units" "Typical" -offset indent
.It Sy "Sensor" Ta Sy "Units" Ta Sy "Typical Use"
.It Li "temp" Ta "uK" Ta "temperature"
.It Li "fan" Ta "RPM" Ta "fan"
.It Li "psu" Ta "On/Off" Ta "power supply"
.It Li "doorlock" Ta "On/Off" Ta "door lock"
.It Li "alarm" Ta "On/Off" Ta "enclosure alarm"
.El
.Pp
Sensor data is updated every 10 seconds.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr intro 4 ,
.Xr scsibus 4 ,
.Xr sensorsd 8 ,
.Xr sysctl 8
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
driver first appeared in
.Ox 3.8 .
.Sh AUTHORS
The
.Nm
driver was written by
.An David Gwynne Aq dlg@openbsd.org .
.Sh BUGS
Only the temperature sensor is checked.
Further sensor support is to be added.
