.\"	$OpenBSD: samsabi.4,v 1.1 2026/05/26 03:52:37 mglocker Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2026 Marcus Glocker <mglocker@openbsd.org>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: May 26 2026 $
.Dt SAMSABI 4
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm samsabi
.Nd Samsung laptop keyboard backlight
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Cd "samsabi* at iic?"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
driver provides support for the Samsung Advanced BIOS Interface
.Pq SABI ,
a vendor command interface of the embedded controller found in Samsung
laptops based on the Qualcomm Snapdragon X1E80100, such as the Galaxy
Book4 Edge.
The controller, identified as
.Dq SAM060B
in ACPI, is an ENE KB9058 micro controller running Samsung firmware.
It exposes the SABI command protocol on the I2C bus at a separate
address from the
.Dq Mbox
channel used by
.Xr sambat 4
for battery status.
.Pp
The
.Nm
driver currently uses this interface to control the keyboard backlight.
The backlight level can be retrieved and modified with the
.Xr wsconsctl 8
variable
.Va keyboard.backlight .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr iic 4 ,
.Xr intro 4 ,
.Xr sambat 4 ,
.Xr wskbd 4 ,
.Xr wsconsctl 8
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
driver first appeared in
.Ox 8.0 .
.Sh AUTHORS
.An -nosplit
The
.Nm
driver was written by
.An Marcus Glocker Aq Mt mglocker@openbsd.org .
.Sh BUGS
The embedded controller does not hold intermediate keyboard backlight
levels: it fades the backlight off shortly after a level is set, and
only full brightness can be refreshed often enough to be kept lit.
As a result the driver treats any non-zero brightness request as full
brightness.
