.\"	$OpenBSD: sbus.4,v 1.26 2004/09/23 18:28:50 jason Exp $
.\"	$NetBSD: sbus.4,v 1.5 2002/01/21 17:54:10 wiz Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001 The NetBSD Foundation, Inc.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to The NetBSD Foundation
.\" by Paul Kranenburg.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"        This product includes software developed by the NetBSD
.\"        Foundation, Inc. and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of The NetBSD Foundation nor the names of its
.\"    contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived
.\"    from this software without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE NETBSD FOUNDATION, INC. AND CONTRIBUTORS
.\" ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED
.\" TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
.\" PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE FOUNDATION OR CONTRIBUTORS
.\" BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
.\" INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
.\" CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
.\" POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd February 29, 2004
.Dt SBUS 4
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm sbus
.Nd introduction to sbus bus support and drivers
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Cd "sbus* at mainbus?"
.Cd "sbus* at iommu?"
.Cd "sbus* at xbox?"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
These
.Nm
attachments are specific to the sparc and sparc64 ports.
.Pp
.Nm
is an I/O interconnect bus mostly found in
.Tn SPARC
workstations and small to medium server class systems.
It supports both on-board peripherals and extension boards.
The
.Nm
specifications define the bus protocol as well as the electrical and
mechanical properties of the extension slots.
.Sh HARDWARE
.Ox
includes the following
.Nm
drivers, sorted by device type and driver name:
.Ss Audio interfaces
.Bl -tag -width 13n -offset ind -compact
.It Xr audioamd 4
.Tn AMD
7990 codecs.
.It Xr audiocs 4
.Tn "Crystal Semiconductor"
CS4231A codecs.
.El
.Ss SCSI interfaces
.Bl -tag -width 13n -offset ind -compact
.It Xr esp 4
NCR53c94 and compatible
.Tn SCSI
interfaces.
.It Xr isp 4
Qlogic
.Tn SCSI
interfaces.
.El
.Ss Network interfaces
.Bl -tag -width 13n -offset ind -compact
.It Xr be 4
.Dq Big Mac
.Tn Ethernet
board.
.It Xr hme 4
.Dq Happy Meal
.Tn Ethernet
interfaces.
.It Xr le 4
.Tn Lance
7990 series
.Tn Ethernet
interfaces.
.It Xr lebuffer 4 , Xr ledma 4
.Tn Lance
7990 series
.Tn Ethernet
DMA interfaces.
.It Xr qe 4
Quad Ethernet Controller
board.
.El
.Ss Bridges
.Bl -tag -width 13n -offset ind -compact
.It Xr stp 4
.Nm sbus
.Xr pcmcia 4
bridge.
.El
.Ss Graphics devices
.Bl -tag -width 13n -offset ind -compact
.It Xr agten 4
Fujitsu AG-10e accelerated 24-bit color frame buffer.
.It Xr bwtwo 4
Monochromatic frame buffer.
.It Xr cgfourteen 4
Accelerated 8/24-bit color frame buffer.
.It Xr cgsix 4
Accelerated 8-bit color frame buffer.
.It Xr cgthree 4
8-bit color frame buffer.
.It Xr cgtwelve 4
Accelerated 24-bit color frame buffer.
.It Xr mgx 4
SMS MGX and MGXPlus accelerated 24-bit color frame buffers.
.It Xr pninek 4
Weitek Power9000 frame buffer found on Tadpole SPARCbook 3.
.It Xr pnozz 4
Weitek Power9100 frame buffer found on Tadpole SPARCbook 3GS, 3GX, 3TX and 3XP.
.It Xr rfx 4
Vitec/Connectware/AP&D
.Tn RasterFlex
framebuffer series.
.It Xr tcx 4
Accelerated 8/24-bit color frame buffer.
.It Xr tvtwo 4
Accelerated 24-bit color frame buffer.
.It Xr vigra 4
8-bit SBus color frame buffer with VGA-compatible modes.
.It Xr zx 4
Accelerated 24-bit color frame buffer.
.El
.Ss Serial and parallel interfaces
.Bl -tag -width 13n -offset ind -compact
.It Xr apio 4
Aurora Technologies pio1 parallel port card.
.It Xr asio 4
Aurora Technologies pio2 serial port card.
.It Xr bpp 4
Parallel port.
.It Xr magma 4
Magma LC series Serial/Parallel Interface cards.
.It Xr spif 4
Sun Serial/Parallel Interface card.
.El
.Ss Miscellaneous devices
.Bl -tag -width 13n -offset ind -compact
.It Xr auxio 4
Miscellaneous I/O controls.
.It Xr clock 4
Realtime clock.
.It Xr presto 4
Prestoserve battery-backed memory.
.It Xr uperf 4
Performance counters on the host bridge.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr agten 4 ,
.Xr apio 4 ,
.Xr asio 4 ,
.Xr audioamd 4 ,
.Xr audiocs 4 ,
.Xr auxio 4 ,
.Xr be 4 ,
.Xr bpp 4 ,
.Xr bwtwo 4 ,
.Xr cgfourteen 4 ,
.Xr cgsix 4 ,
.Xr cgthree 4 ,
.Xr cgtwelve 4 ,
.Xr clock 4 ,
.Xr esp 4 ,
.Xr hme 4 ,
.Xr intro 4 ,
.Xr isp 4 ,
.Xr le 4 ,
.Xr lebuffer 4 ,
.Xr ledma 4 ,
.Xr magma 4 ,
.Xr mgx 4 ,
.Xr pnozz 4 ,
.Xr presto 4 ,
.Xr qe 4 ,
.Xr qec 4 ,
.Xr rfx 4 ,
.Xr spif 4 ,
.Xr stp 4 ,
.Xr tcx 4 ,
.Xr tvtwo 4 ,
.Xr uperf 4 ,
.Xr vigra 4 ,
.Xr xbox 4 ,
.Xr zx 4
.Sh HISTORY
The machine-independent
.Nm sbus
subsystem appeared in
.Nx 1.3 .
.Ox
support first appeared in
.Ox 2.0 .
