.\"	$OpenBSD: stp.4,v 1.1 2002/06/20 03:17:43 fgsch Exp $
.\"	$NetBSD: nell.4,v 1.2 2002/03/29 16:23:50 wiz Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2002 The NetBSD Foundation, Inc.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to The NetBSD Foundation
.\" by Martin Husemann <martin@NetBSD.ORG>.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"        This product includes software developed by the NetBSD
.\"        Foundation, Inc. and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of The NetBSD Foundation nor the names of its
.\"    contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived
.\"    from this software without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE NETBSD FOUNDATION, INC. AND CONTRIBUTORS
.\" ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED
.\" TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
.\" PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE FOUNDATION OR CONTRIBUTORS
.\" BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
.\" INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
.\" CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
.\" POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"
.Dd June 20, 2002
.Dt STP 4
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm stp
.Nd sbus pcmcia bridge
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Cd "stp* at sbus? slot ? offset ?"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
is a pcmcia bridge for the sbus. It is also known as STP4020, the name
of the chipset used to implement it, and has SUN part number 501-2367.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr pcmcia 4 ,
.Xr sbus 4
.Sh BUGS
The driver provides a big-endian pcmcia bus, which is wrong in the
.Ox
context. Due to missing/incomplete documentation of the chipset it is not
known for sure if the hardware has any byteswapping mode. For sparc64 systems
this can easily be worked around in software, so this will be fixed. For
sparc systems, the fix might impose a serious performance degration and is
subject of further research.
.\" .Pp
.\" This means that currently some cards will work (because they are using 8 bit
.\" access only), including com and ray cards. Most cards will not work. For
.\" the wi driver, there is a hack to make it accept a big-endian bus. Be sure to
.\" only use it if this is the only wi card in your system:
.\" .Pp
.\" .Cd "options WI_AT_BIGENDIAN_BUS_HACK"
.\" .Cd "wi* at pcmcia? function ?"
