.\"	$OpenBSD: switch.4,v 1.2 2016/09/04 16:49:57 yasuoka Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2016 YASUOKA Masahiko <yasuoka@openbsd.org>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: September 4 2016 $
.Dt SWITCH 4
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm switch
.Nd Network switch pseudo device
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Cd "pseudo-device switch"
.Pp
.In sys/types.h
.In net/if.h
.In netinet/in.h
.In netinet/if_ether.h
.In net/if_bridge.h
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
driver provides a network interface pseudo-device.
The interface is the forwarding part of a network switch,
and it works along with a controller which usually is 
.Xr switchd 8
or
.Xr switchctl 8 through the device
.Pa /dev/switchN .
As the protocol between the
.Nm
device
and the controller,
OpenFlow 1.3 is supported.
.Pp
A
.Nm
interface is created using the
.Ic ifconfig switch Ns Ar N Ic create
or by opening the character device
.Pa /dev/switchN .
.Pp
.Pa /dev/switchN
is the OpenFlow channel of the interface
.Pa switchN .
It is used for exchanging OpenFlow messages.
The device grantees
.Xr read 2
returns a complete OpenFlow message, it never return a message partially.
The program which uses the
.Pa /dev/switchN
must write(2) per a complete OpenFlow message.
.Sh IOCTLS
A
.Nm
interface responds to all of the
.Xr ioctl 2
calls specific to other interfaces listed in
.Xr netintro 4 .
.Pp
The following
.Xr ioctl 2 
calls are used commonly by
.Nm
and
.Xr bridge 4 .
.Pp
.Bl -bullet -offset indent -compact
.It
.Dv SIOCBRDGIFS
.It
.Dv SIOCBRDGADD
.It
.Dv SIOCBRDGDEL
.It
.Dv SIOCBRDGGIFFLGS
.El
.Pp
Also the parameter structures are used commonly by
.Nm
and
.Xr bridge 4 .
.Pp
The following
.Xr ioctl
calls are
specific for
.Nm
interface.
They are defined in
.In sys/sockio.h .
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Dv SIOCBRDGADDL Fa "struct ifbreq *"
Add the interface named in
.Va ifbr_ifsname
to the switch named in
.Va ifbr_name
as a local port which connects the local system's network stacks.
Only one
.Xr vether 4
interface can be added as a local port.
.It Dv SIOCSWGDPID
Retrieve the datapath_id in OpenFlow protocol of the switch named in 
.Va ifbrp_name
into
.Va ifbrpu_datapath
field.
.It Dv SIOCSWSDPID Fa "struct ifbrparam"
Set the datapath_id in OpenFlow protocol of the switch named in 
.Va ifbrp_name
to the value in
.Va ifbrpu_datapath
field.
.It Dv SIOCSWGFLOWMAX Fa "struct ifbrparam"
Retrieve the maximum number of flows in OpenFlow protocol of the switch named in
.Va ifbrp_name
into
.Va ifbrp_maxflow
field.
.It Dv SIOCSWSFLOWMAX Fa "struct ifbrparam"
Set the maximum number of flows in OpenFlow protocol of the switch named in 
.Va ifbrp_name
to the value in
.Va ifbrpu_maxflow
field.
.It Dv SIOCSWGMAXGROUP Fa "struct ifbrparam"
Retrieve the maximum number of groups in OpenFlow protocol of the switch named
in 
.Va ifbrp_name
into
.Va ifbrpu_maxgroup
field.
.It Dv SIOCSWSMAXGROUP Fa "struct ifbrparam"
Set the maximum number of groups in OpenFlow protocol of the switch named in 
.Va ifbrp_name
to the value in
.Va ifbrpu_maxgroup
field.
.It Dv SIOCSWSPORTNO Fa "struct ifbreq"
Set the port_no in OpenFlow protocol of the port named in
.Va ifbr_ifsname
of the switch named in
.Va ifbr_name
to
.Va ifbr_portno
field.
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width /dev/switch* -compact
.It Pa /dev/switch*
.El
.Sh ERRORS
If open fails,
.Xr errno 2
may be set to one of:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er ENXIO
Could not create the interface.
.It Bq Er EBUSY
The device was already opened.
.It Bq Er ENOBUF
Out of memory.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr bridge 4 ,
.Xr inet 4 ,
.Xr inet6 4 ,
.Xr vether 4 ,
.Xr hostname.if 5 ,
.Xr ifconfig 8 ,
.Xr netstart 8
.Xr switchctl 8 ,
.Xr switchd 8 ,
.Sh STANDARDS
.Rs
.%A Open Networking Foundation (ONF)
.%D March 26, 2015
.%R Version 1.3.5 (Protocol version 0x04)
.%T OpenFlow Switch Specification
.Re
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
driver first appeared in
.Ox 6.1 .
.Sh AUTHORS
The
.Nm
driver written by 
.An Kazuya Goda Aq Mt goda@openbsd.org .
