.\"	$OpenBSD: ti.4,v 1.23 2004/11/22 04:32:14 deraadt Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1997, 1998, 1999
.\"	Bill Paul <wpaul@ctr.columbia.edu>. All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by Bill Paul.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the author nor the names of any co-contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"   without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY Bill Paul AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL Bill Paul OR THE VOICES IN HIS HEAD
.\" BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
.\" INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
.\" CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF
.\" THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	$FreeBSD: src/share/man/man4/ti.4,v 1.11 2000/08/10 19:47:32 billf Exp $
.\"
.Dd March 4, 1999
.Dt TI 4
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm ti
.Nd Alteon Networks Tigon I and II Gigabit Ethernet driver
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Cd "ti* at pci?"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
driver provides support for PCI Gigabit Ethernet adapters based on
the Alteon Networks Tigon Gigabit Ethernet controller chip.
The Tigon contains an embedded R4000 CPU, Gigabit MAC, dual DMA channels and
a PCI interface unit.
The Tigon II contains two R4000 CPUs and other refinements.
Either chip can be used in either a 32-bit or 64-bit PCI slot.
Communication with the chip is achieved via PCI shared memory and
bus master DMA.
The Tigon I and II support hardware multicast
address filtering, VLAN tag extraction and insertion, and jumbo
Ethernet frames sizes up to 9000 bytes.
Note that the Tigon I chipset is no longer in active production: all new
adapters should come equipped with Tigon II chipsets.
.Pp
There are several PCI boards available from both Alteon and other
vendors that use the Tigon chipset under OEM contract.
The
.Nm
driver has been tested with the following Tigon-based adapters:
.Pp
.Bl -bullet -compact -offset indent
.It
The Alteon AceNIC V Gigabit Ethernet adapter (1000baseSX)
.It
The Alteon AceNIC V Gigabit Ethernet adapter (1000baseT)
.It
The 3Com 3C985-SX Gigabit Ethernet adapter (Tigon 1)
.It
The 3Com 3C985B-SX Gigabit Ethernet adapter (Tigon 2)
.It
The Netgear GA620 Gigabit Ethernet adapter (1000baseSX)
.It
The Netgear GA620T Gigabit Ethernet adapter (1000baseT)
.El
.Pp
The following should also be supported but have not yet been tested:
.Pp
.Bl -bullet -compact -offset indent
.It
The Digital EtherWORKS 1000SX PCI Gigabit Adapter
.It
Silicon Graphics PCI Gigabit Ethernet adapter
.It
Farallon PN9000SX Gigabit Ethernet adapter
.El
.Pp
While the Tigon chipset supports 10, 100 and 1000Mbps speeds, support for
10 and 100Mbps speeds is only available on boards with the proper
transceivers.
Most adapters are only designed to work at 1000Mbps, however the driver
should support those NICs that work at lower speeds as well.
.Pp
Support for jumbo frames is provided via the interface MTU setting.
Selecting an MTU larger than 1500 bytes with the
.Xr ifconfig 8
utility configures the adapter to receive and transmit jumbo frames.
Using jumbo frames can greatly improve performance for certain tasks,
such as file transfers and data streaming.
.Pp
The
.Nm
driver supports the following media types:
.Bl -tag -width full-duplex
.It autoselect
Enable autoselection of the media type and options.
The user can manually override
the autoselected mode by adding media options to the appropriate
.Xr hostname.if 5
file.
.It 10baseT
Set 10Mbps operation
The
.Ar mediaopt
option can also be used to select either
.Ar full-duplex
or
.Ar half-duplex
modes.
.It 100baseTX
Set 100Mbps (Fast Ethernet) operation.
The
.Ar mediaopt
option can also be used to select either
.Ar full-duplex
or
.Ar half-duplex
modes.
.It 1000baseSX
Set 1000Mbps (Gigabit Ethernet) on fiber operation.
Only
.Ar full-duplex
mode is supported at this speed.
.It 1000baseT
Set 1000Mbps (Gigabit Ethernet) on copper operation.
.El
.Pp
The
.Nm
driver supports the following media options:
.Bl -tag -width full-duplex
.It full-duplex
Force full duplex operation
.It half-duplex
Force half duplex operation
.El
.Pp
For more information on configuring this device, see
.Xr ifconfig 8 .
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
.Bl -diag
.It "ti%d: couldn't map memory"
A fatal initialization error has occurred.
.It "ti%d: couldn't map interrupt"
A fatal initialization error has occurred.
.It "ti%d: no memory for softc struct!"
The driver failed to allocate memory for per-device instance information
during initialization.
.It "ti%d: failed to enable memory mapping!"
The driver failed to initialize PCI shared memory mapping.
This might happen if the card is not in a bus-master slot.
.It "ti%d: no memory for jumbo buffers!"
The driver failed to allocate memory for jumbo frames during
initialization.
.It "ti%d: bios thinks we're in a 64 bit slot, but we aren't"
The BIOS has programmed the NIC as though it had been installed in
a 64-bit PCI slot, but in fact the NIC is in a 32-bit slot.
This happens as a result of a bug in some BIOSes.
This can be worked around on the Tigon II, but
on the Tigon I initialization will fail.
.It "ti%d: board self-diagnostics failed!"
The ROMFAIL bit in the CPU state register was set after system
startup, indicating that the on-board NIC diagnostics failed.
.It "ti%d: unknown hwrev"
The driver detected a board with an unsupported hardware revision.
The
.Nm
driver supports revision 4 (Tigon 1) and revision 6 (Tigon 2) chips
and has firmware only for those devices.
.It "ti%d: watchdog timeout"
The device has stopped responding to the network, or there is a problem with
the network connection (cable).
.El
.Sh FILES
Two firmware files are neccessary, for Tigon 1 and Tigon 2 devices.
These are loaded on demand.
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width Ds -offset indent -compact
.It Pa /etc/firmware/tigon1
.It Pa /etc/firmware/tigon2
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr arp 4 ,
.Xr ifmedia 4 ,
.Xr intro 4 ,
.Xr netintro 4 ,
.Xr pci 4 ,
.Xr hostname.if 5 ,
.Xr ifconfig 8
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
device driver first appeared in
.Fx 3.0 .
.Ox
support first appeared in
.Ox 2.6 .
.Sh AUTHORS
The
.Nm
driver was written by
.An Bill Paul Aq wpaul@bsdi.com .
