.\"     $OpenBSD: tx.4,v 1.14 2004/09/30 19:59:25 mickey Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1998 Jason L. Wright (jason@thought.net)
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
.\" DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT,
.\" INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
.\" (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
.\" SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
.\" STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN
.\" ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
.\" POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd September 21, 1998
.Dt TX 4
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm tx
.Nd SMC 9432 10/100 Mbps Ethernet driver
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Cd "tx* at pci?"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
interface provides access to the 10Mb/s and 100Mb/s Ethernet networks via the
.Tn SMC
.Tn EPIC
chipset.
This driver provides support for the
.Tn SMC
.Tn EtherPower II 10/100
Ethernet cards.
.Pp
Each of the host's network addresses
is specified at boot time with an
.Dv SIOCSIFADDR
.Xr ioctl 2 .
The
.Nm
interface employs the address resolution protocol described in
.Xr arp 4
to dynamically map between Internet and Ethernet addresses on the local
network.
.Pp
When a
.Nm
interface is brought up, by default, it will attempt to auto-negotiate the
link speed and duplex.
The speeds, in order of attempt, are: 100Mb/s Full Duplex, 100Mb/s Half Duplex,
10 Mb/s Full Duplex, and 10 Mb/s Half Duplex.
.Pp
The
.Nm
supports several media types, which are selected via the
.Xr ifconfig 8
command.
The supported media types are:
.Bl -tag -width 6n -offset indent
.It media autoselect
Attempt to autoselect the media type (default)
.It media 100baseFX mediaopt full-duplex
Use 100baseFX (fiber), full duplex
.It media 100baseFX Op mediaopt half-duplex
Use 100baseFX (fiber), half duplex
.It media 100baseTX mediaopt full-duplex
Use 100baseTX, full duplex
.It media 100baseTX Op mediaopt half-duplex
Use 100baseTX, half duplex
.It media 100baseTX mediaopt loopback
Put the interface into loopback mode
.It media 10baseT mediaopt full-duplex
Use 10baseT, full duplex
.It media 10baseT Op mediaopt half-duplex
Use 10baseT, half duplex
.It media 10baseT mediaopt loopback
Put the interface into loopback mode
.El
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
.Bl -diag
.It "tx%d: device timeout %d packets"
The device stopped responding.
Device and driver reset follows this error.
.It "tx%d: PCI fatal error occurred (%s)"
One of following errors occurred: PCI Target Abort, PCI Master Abort, Data
Parity Error or Address Parity Error.
Device and driver reset follows this error.
.It "tx%d: WARNING! no link established"
No media connected.
Displayed at startup only.
.It "tx%d: cannot allocate mbuf header/cluster"
Failed to allocate memory for a received packet.
Packet was dropped.
.It "tx%d: can't stop %s DMA"
While resetting, the driver failed to stop the device correctly.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr arp 4 ,
.Xr ifmedia 4 ,
.Xr inet 4 ,
.Xr intro 4 ,
.Xr netintro 4 ,
.Xr pci 4 ,
.Xr hostname.if 5 ,
.Xr ifconfig 8
.Sh HISTORY
.Ox
support for the
.Nm
first appeared in
.Ox 2.4 .
.Sh BUGS
Multicast packet filtering is not supported.
