.\" $OpenBSD: uath.4,v 1.10 2007/08/29 20:10:52 damien Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2006
.\"     Damien Bergamini <damien.bergamini@free.fr>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: August 29 2007 $
.Os
.Dt UATH 4
.Sh NAME
.Nm uath
.Nd Atheros USB IEEE 802.11a/b/g wireless network device
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Cd "uath* at uhub? port ?"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
driver supports USB 2.0 wireless network devices based on Atheros
Communications fifth generation AR5005UG and AR5005UX chipsets.
.Pp
The AR5005UG chipset is made of an AR5523 multiprotocol MAC/baseband processor
and an AR2112 Radio-on-a-Chip that can operate between 2300 and 2500 MHz
(802.11b/g).
.Pp
The AR5005UX chipset is made of an AR5523 multiprotocol MAC/baseband processor
and an AR5112 dual band Radio-on-a-Chip that can operate between 2300 and
2500 MHz (802.11b/g) or 4900 and 5850 MHz (802.11a).
.Pp
The AR5005UG and AR5005UX chipsets both have an integrated 32-bit MIPS
R4000-class processor that runs a firmware and manages, among other things,
the automatic control of the transmit rate and the calibration of the radio.
.Pp
These are the modes the
.Nm
driver can operate in:
.Bl -tag -width "IBSS-masterXX"
.It BSS mode
Also known as
.Em infrastructure
mode, this is used when associating with an access point, through
which all traffic passes.
This mode is the default.
.It monitor mode
In this mode the driver is able to receive packets without
associating with an access point.
This disables the internal receive filter and enables the card to
capture packets from networks which it wouldn't normally have access to,
or to scan for access points.
.El
.Pp
.Nm
supports hardware WEP.
Wired Equivalent Privacy (WEP) is the de facto encryption standard
for wireless networks.
It can be typically configured in one of three modes:
no encryption; 40-bit encryption; or 104-bit encryption.
Unfortunately, due to serious weaknesses in WEP protocol
it is strongly recommended that it not be used as the
sole mechanism to secure wireless communication.
WEP is not enabled by default.
.Sh CONFIGURATION
The
.Nm
driver can be configured at runtime with
.Xr ifconfig 8
or on boot with
.Xr hostname.if 5
using the following parameters:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Cm bssid Ar bssid
Set the desired BSSID.
.It Fl bssid
Unset the desired BSSID.
The interface will automatically select a BSSID in this mode, which is
the default.
.It Cm chan Ar n
Set the channel (radio frequency) to be used by the driver based on
the given channel ID
.Ar n .
.It Fl chan
Unset the desired channel to be used by the driver.
The driver will automatically select a channel in this mode, which is
the default.
.It Cm media Ar media
The
.Nm
driver supports the following
.Ar media
types:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width autoselect -compact
.It Cm autoselect
Enable autoselection of the media type and options.
.It Cm DS1
Set 802.11b DS 1Mbps operation.
.It Cm DS2
Set 802.11b DS 2Mbps operation.
.It Cm DS5
Set 802.11b DS 5.5Mbps operation.
.It Cm DS11
Set 802.11b DS 11Mbps operation.
.It Cm OFDM6
Set 802.11a/g OFDM 6Mbps operation.
.It Cm OFDM9
Set 802.11a/g OFDM 9Mbps operation.
.It Cm OFDM12
Set 802.11a/g OFDM 12Mbps operation.
.It Cm OFDM18
Set 802.11a/g OFDM 18Mbps operation.
.It Cm OFDM24
Set 802.11a/g OFDM 24Mbps operation.
.It Cm OFDM36
Set 802.11a/g OFDM 36Mbps operation.
.It Cm OFDM48
Set 802.11a/g OFDM 48Mbps operation.
.It Cm OFDM54
Set 802.11a/g OFDM 54Mbps operation.
.El
.It Cm mediaopt Ar opts
The
.Nm
driver supports the following media options:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width monitor -compact
.It Cm monitor
Select monitor mode.
.El
.It Fl mediaopt Ar opts
Disable the specified media options on the driver and return it to the
default mode of operation (BSS).
.It Cm mode Ar mode
The
.Nm
driver supports the following modes:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width 11b -compact
.It Cm 11a
Force 802.11a operation.
.It Cm 11b
Force 802.11b operation.
.It Cm 11g
Force 802.11g operation.
.El
.It Cm nwid Ar id
Set the network ID.
The
.Ar id
can either be any text string up to 32 characters in length,
or a series of hexadecimal digits up to 64 digits.
An empty
.Ar id
string allows the interface to connect to any available access points.
By default the
.Nm
driver uses an empty string.
Note that network ID is synonymous with Extended Service Set ID (ESSID).
.It Fl nwid
Set the network ID to the empty string to allow the interface to connect
to any available access point.
.It Cm nwkey Ar key
Enable WEP encryption using the specified
.Ar key .
The
.Ar key
can either be a string, a series of hexadecimal digits (preceded by
.Sq 0x ) ,
or a set of keys of the form
.Dq n:k1,k2,k3,k4 ,
where
.Sq n
specifies which of the keys will be used for transmitted packets,
and the four keys,
.Dq k1
through
.Dq k4 ,
are configured as WEP keys.
If a set of keys is specified, a comma
.Pq Sq \&,
within the key must be escaped with a backslash.
Note that if multiple keys are used, their order must be the same within
the network.
.Nm
is capable of using both 40-bit (5 characters or 10 hexadecimal digits)
or 104-bit (13 characters or 26 hexadecimal digits) keys.
.It Fl nwkey
Disable WEP encryption.
This is the default mode of operation.
.El
.Sh FILES
The following firmware file is loaded when a device is plugged:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width Ds -offset indent -compact
.It /etc/firmware/uath-ar5523
.El
.Pp
This firmware file is not freely redistributable.
.Pp
A prepackaged version of the firmware, designed to be used with
.Xr pkg_add 1 ,
can be found at:
.Pp
.Pa http://damien.bergamini.free.fr/packages/openbsd/uath-firmware-1.0.tgz
.Sh HARDWARE
The following adapters should work:
.Pp
.Bl -column -compact "TRENDware International TEW-444UB" "AR5005UX" -offset 6n
.It Em "Adapter	Chipset"
.\".It Belkin F6D3050	AR5005UX
.It Li "Compex WLU108AG" Ta AR5005UX
.It Li "Compex WLU108G" Ta AR5005UG
.\".It Li "D-Link DWL-AG132" Ta AR5005UX
.It Li "D-Link DWL-G132" Ta AR5005UG
.\".It Li "Edimax EW-7315Ug" Ta AR5005UG (AR2414???)
.\".It Li "Lancom USB-54ag" Ta AR5005UX
.\".It Li "NEC WL54TU" Ta AR5005UX
.It Li "Netgear WG111T" Ta AR5005UG
.It Li "Netgear WG111U" Ta AR5005UX
.It Li "Netgear WPN111" Ta AR5005UG
.It Li "Olitec 000544" Ta AR5005UG
.It Li "PLANET WDL-U357" Ta AR5005UX
.\".It Li "Senao WUB-8004" Ta AR5005UX
.It Li "Siemens Gigaset 108" Ta AR5005UG
.It Li "SMC SMCWUSBT-G" Ta AR5005UG
.\".It Li "SparkLAN WL-685GS" Ta AR5005UG
.It Li "SparkLAN WL-785A" Ta AR5005UX
.It Li "TP-Link TL-WN620G" Ta AR5005UG
.It Li "TRENDware International TEW-444UB" Ta AR5005UG
.It Li "TRENDware International TEW-504UB" Ta AR5005UX
.It Li "Unex Technology UR054ag" Ta AR5005UX
.\".It Li "Wistron NeWeb DCUA-81" Ta AR5005UX
.\".It Li "Wistron NeWeb DRUA-81" Ta AR5005UG
.\".It Li "Wistron NeWeb DRUA-82" Ta AR5005UX
.\".It Li "ZyXEL G-200 v2" Ta AR5005UG
.It Li "ZyXEL XtremeMIMO M-202" Ta AR5005UX
.El
.Pp
An up to date list can be found at
.Pa http://customerproducts.atheros.com/customerproducts/default.asp .
.Sh EXAMPLES
The following
.Xr hostname.if 5
example configures uath0 to join whatever network is available on boot,
using WEP key
.Dq 0x1deadbeef1 ,
channel 11, obtaining an IP address using DHCP:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
dhcp NONE NONE NONE nwkey 0x1deadbeef1 chan 11
.Ed
.Pp
The following
.Xr hostname.if 5
example creates a host-based access point on boot:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
inet 192.168.1.1 255.255.255.0 NONE media autoselect \e
        mediaopt hostap nwid my_net chan 11
.Ed
.Pp
Configure uath0 for WEP, using hex key
.Dq 0x1deadbeef1 :
.Bd -literal -offset indent
# ifconfig uath0 nwkey 0x1deadbeef1
.Ed
.Pp
Return uath0 to its default settings:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
# ifconfig uath0 -bssid -chan media autoselect \e
        nwid "" -nwkey
.Ed
.Pp
Join an existing BSS network,
.Dq my_net :
.Bd -literal -offset indent
# ifconfig uath0 192.168.1.1 netmask 0xffffff00 nwid my_net
.Ed
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
.Bl -diag
.It "uath%d: error %d, could not read firmware %s"
For some reason, the driver was unable to read the firmware image from the
filesystem.
The file might be missing or corrupted.
.It "uath%d: could not load firmware (error=%s)"
An error occurred while attempting to upload the firmware to the onboard
MIPS R4000 processor.
.It "uath%d: could not initialize adapter (error=%d)"
The firmware was uploaded successfully but did not initialize properly or
in time.
.It "uath%d: could not send command (error=%s)"
An attempt to send a command to the firmware failed.
.It "uath%d: timeout waiting for command reply"
A read command was sent to the firmware but the firmware failed to reply in
time.
.It "uath%d: device timeout"
A frame dispatched to the hardware for transmission did not complete in time.
The driver will reset the hardware.
This should not happen.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr arp 4 ,
.Xr ifmedia 4 ,
.Xr intro 4 ,
.Xr netintro 4 ,
.Xr usb 4 ,
.Xr hostname.if 5 ,
.Xr hostapd 8 ,
.Xr ifconfig 8
.Pp
Atheros Communications AR5005UG/AR5005UX:
.Pa http://www.atheros.com/pt/bulletins/AR5005UGBulletin.pdf
.Pa http://www.atheros.com/pt/bulletins/AR5005UXBulletin.pdf
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
driver first appeared in
.Ox 4.0 .
.Sh AUTHORS
The
.Nm
driver was written by
.An Damien Bergamini Aq damien@openbsd.org .
.Sh CAVEATS
Atheros Communications refuses to release any documentation for their products.
Atheros proprietary 108 Mbps mode (aka Super AG mode) is not supported.
.Pp
The
.Nm
driver does not attempt to do any regulation of radio frequencies.
