.\" $OpenBSD: ueagle.4,v 1.14 2011/08/19 19:59:51 jmc Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2003-2005
.\"     Damien Bergamini <damien.bergamini@free.fr>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: August 19 2011 $
.Dt UEAGLE 4
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm ueagle
.Nd Analog Devices Eagle ADSL modems
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Cd "ueagle* at uhub? port ?"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
driver provides support for USB ADSL modems based on the Analog Devices Eagle
chipset (revision I, II and III).
.Pp
The
.Nm
driver can only manage a single ATM AAL5 virtual circuit.
The segmentation and
reassembly (SAR) of ATM cells is done by software.
.Pp
To achieve high rate downstream transfer with fast ADSL connections, the
.Nm
driver uses USB isochronous pipes instead of standard bulk pipes.
.Pp
To establish a permanent virtual circuit (PVC) with a peer,
.Nm
must be configured using the
.Xr route 8
command.
A typical invocation is:
.Bd -literal -offset 3n
# route add -iface <Peer IP> -link if:encap.vpi.vci_hi.vci_lo
.Ed
.Pp
The arguments to
.Dq -link
are as follows:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width Ds -offset 3n -compact
.It if
Interface name.
For example,
.Dq ueagle0 .
.Pp
.It encap
Type of encapsulation to use.
Possible types are:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width "AAL5 LLC/SNAPXX" -offset 3n -compact
.It AAL5 VCMUX
Use hex value 0x1.
.It AAL5 LLC/SNAP
Use hex value 0x3.
.El
.Pp
.It vpi
See ISP's recommended setting for this.
All values specified in hex.
.Pp
.It vci_hi
.It vci_lo
See ISP's recommended setting for this.
All values specified in hex.
The VCI is specified as high_order_byte.low_order_byte.
For example, a VCI of 35 would be specified as
.Dq 0.23 .
.El
.Pp
See also
.Sx EXAMPLES
below.
.Sh HARDWARE
The following modems should work:
.Bl -column "Modem                            " "Chip" -offset 6n
.It Em "Modem                      " Ta Em "Chip"
.It Li "Aethra Starmodem" Ta Eagle II
.It Li "Allied Telesyn AT-AR215" Ta Eagle I
.It Li "Arescom NDS1060" Ta Eagle II
.It Li "Aztech 206U" Ta Eagle II
.It Li "Comtrend CT-350" Ta Eagle I
.It Li "Comtrend CT-361" Ta Eagle I
.It Li "D-Link DSL-200I" Ta Eagle I
.It Li "ECI B-FOCuS USB 150" Ta Eagle II
.It Li "Elcon 111U" Ta Eagle II
.It Li "Elcon 131U" Ta Eagle II
.It Li "ELSA MicroLink ADSL FUN USB" Ta Eagle I
.It Li "Huawei SmartAX MT810" Ta Eagle II
.It Li "Sagem F@st 800" Ta Eagle I
.It Li "Sagem F@st 800 PE/E2" Ta Eagle II
.It Li "Sagem F@st 800 E3" Ta Eagle III
.It Li "Sagem F@st 908" Ta Eagle I
.It Li "Teledat 300 USB" Ta Eagle I
.It Li "Telindus ND 220" Ta Eagle II
.It Li "Telindus ND 220b" Ta Eagle II
.It Li "US Robotics USR9000/2/3" Ta Eagle I
.El
.Sh FILES
The adapter needs some firmware files, which are loaded on demand:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width Ds -offset indent -compact
.It /etc/firmware/ueagleI
.It /etc/firmware/ueagleII
.It /etc/firmware/ueagleIII
.It /etc/firmware/ueagle-dsp
.El
.Pp
These firmware files are not free because Analog Devices refuses to grant
distribution rights.
.Pp
A prepackaged version of the firmware, designed to be used with
.Xr pkg_add 1 ,
can be found at:
.Bd -literal -offset 3n
http://firmware.openbsd.org/firmware/ueagle-firmware-1.0p0.tgz
.Ed
.Sh EXAMPLES
To establish a PVC (vpi=8, vci=35, vcmux) with host 192.168.1.2:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
# route add -iface 192.168.1.2 -link ueagle0:1.8.0.23
.Ed
.Pp
To establish a PVC (vpi=0, vci=6, llc/snap) with host 192.168.1.3:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
# route add -iface 192.168.1.3 -link ueagle0:3.0.0.6
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr uhub 4 ,
.Xr usb 4 ,
.Xr route 8
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
driver first appeared in
.Ox 3.8 .
.Sh AUTHORS
The
.Nm
driver was written by
.An Damien Bergamini Aq damien@openbsd.org .
.Sh CAVEATS
The
.Nm
driver only supports ADSL over POTS.
ADSL over ISDN is not supported.
G.Lite modulation (aka splitterless) has never been tested and probably won't
work.
