.\"	$OpenBSD: umb.4,v 1.1 2016/06/15 19:39:34 gerhard Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2016 genua mbH
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: June 15 2016 $
.Dt UMB 4
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm umb
.Nd USB Mobile Broadband Interface Model (MBIM)
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Cd "umb*  at uhub?"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
driver provides support for USB MBIM devices.
Those devices establish connections via celluar networks such as
GPRS, UMTS, and LTE.
.Pp
The
.Nm
device appears as a regular point-to-point network interface,
transporting raw IP frames.
.Pp
Required configuration parameters like PIN and APN have to be set
via
.Xr ifconfig 8 .
Once the SIM card has been unlocked with the correct PIN, it
will remain in this state until the device is power-cycled.
In case the device is connected to an "always-on" USB port,
it is possible to connect to a provider without entering the
PIN again even afer a reboot of the system.
.Pp
If a default gateway route is configured for the
.Nm
network interface, the driver will modify the destination IP address
dynamically, according to the information sent by the network provider.
.Sh HARDWARE
The following devices are known to be supported by the
.Nm
driver:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width Ds -offset indent -compact
.It Tn Sierra Wireless EM8805
.It Tn Sierra Wireless MC8305
.El
.Pp
There are probably a lot more devices that also work flawlessly.
If some devices fail to provide a confirming MBIM implementation,
their vendor and product IDs should be added to the driver's blacklist
manually.
Since most devices offer multiple interfaces, blacklisted ones will
probably be attached by some other driver, such as
.Xr umsm 4 .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr intro 4 ,
.Xr netintro 4 ,
.Xr usb 4 ,
.Xr hostname.if 5 ,
.Xr ifconfig 8 ,
.Xr route 8
.Rs
.%T "Universal Serial Bus Communications Class Subclass Specification for Mobile Broadband Interface Model"
.%U http://www.usb.org/developers/docs/devclass_docs/MBIM10Errata1_073013.zip
.Re
.Sh CAVEATS
The
.Nm
driver currently does not support IPv6 addresses.
