.\"	$OpenBSD: url.4,v 1.3 2002/09/26 07:55:41 miod Exp $
.\"	$NetBSD: url.4,v 1.4 2002/04/02 20:45:40 augustss Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2002 The NetBSD Foundation, Inc.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"        This product includes software developed by the NetBSD
.\"        Foundation, Inc. and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of The NetBSD Foundation nor the names of its
.\"    contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived
.\"    from this software without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE NETBSD FOUNDATION, INC. AND CONTRIBUTORS
.\" ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED
.\" TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
.\" PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE FOUNDATION OR CONTRIBUTORS
.\" BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
.\" INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
.\" CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
.\" POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd March 29, 2002
.Dt URL 4
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm url
.Nd Realtek RTL8150L USB Ethernet driver
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Cd "url*    at uhub? port ? configuration ?"
.Cd "urlphy* at mii? phy ?"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
driver provides support for USB
.Tn Ethernet
adapters based on the Realtek RTL8150L USB-ether bridge chip.
.Pp
The
.Nm
driver supports the following adapters:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width Dv -offset indent -compact
.It Tn Melco Inc. LUA-KTX
.It Tn GreenHouse GH-USB100B
.It Tn Linksys USB100M
.El
.Pp
For more information on configuring this device, see
.Xr ifconfig 8 .
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
.Bl -diag
.It "url%d: watchdog timeout"
A packet was queued for transmission and a transmit command was
issued, however the device failed to acknowledge the transmission
before a timeout expired.
.It "url%d: no memory for rx list"
The driver failed to allocate an mbuf for the receiver ring.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr arp 4 ,
.Xr ifmedia 4 ,
.Xr mii 4 ,
.Xr netintro 4 ,
.Xr uhub 4 ,
.Xr usb 4 ,
.Xr hostname.if 5 ,
.Xr ifconfig 8
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
device driver first appeared in
.Ox 3.2 .
.Sh AUTHORS
The
.Nm
driver was written by
.An Shingo WATANABE Aq nabe@nabechan.org .
