.\" $OpenBSD: vge.4,v 1.11 2007/05/31 19:19:53 jmc Exp $
.\" $FreeBSD: vge.4,v 1.6 2004/11/24 19:06:43 brueffer Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2004
.\"	Bill Paul <wpaul@windriver.com>. All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by Bill Paul.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the author nor the names of any co-contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"   without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY Bill Paul AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL Bill Paul OR THE VOICES IN HIS HEAD
.\" BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
.\" INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
.\" CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF
.\" THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: May 31 2007 $
.Dt VGE 4
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm vge
.Nd VIA Networking Technologies VT6122 PCI 10/100/Gigabit Ethernet device
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Cd "vge* at pci?"
.Cd "ciphy* at mii?"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
driver provides support for various NICs and embedded Ethernet interfaces
based on the VIA Networking Technologies VT6122 Gigabit Ethernet
controller chips.
.Pp
The VT6122 is a 33/66Mhz 64-bit PCI device which combines a tri-speed MAC with
an integrated 10/100/1000 copper PHY.
(Some older cards use an external PHY.)
The MAC supports IPv4 transmit/receive IP/TCP/UDP hardware
checksum offload, VLAN tag insertion, a 64-entry CAM filter and a 64-entry VLAN
filter, 64-bit multicast hash filter, 4 separate transmit DMA queues, flow control
and Jumbo frames up to 16K in size.
The VT6122 has a 16K receive FIFO and 48K transmit FIFO.
.Pp
The
.Nm
driver takes advantage of the VT6122's checksum offload and VLAN
tagging features, as well as the CAM filter support.
The CAM filter is used for multicast address filtering to provide
64 perfect multicast address filter support.
If it is necessary for the interface to join more than 64 multicast
groups, the driver will switch over to using the hash filter.
.Pp
The
.Nm
driver supports the following media types:
.Bl -tag -width 10baseTXUTP
.It autoselect
Enable autoselection of the media type and options.
The user can manually override the autoselected mode by adding media
options to the appropriate
.Xr hostname.if 5
file.
.It 10baseT/UTP
Set 10Mbps operation.
The
.Xr ifconfig 8
.Ic mediaopt
option can also be used to select either
.Ar full-duplex
or
.Ar half-duplex
modes.
.It 100baseTX
Set 100Mbps (Fast Ethernet) operation.
The
.Xr ifconfig 8
.Ic mediaopt
option can also be used to select either
.Ar full-duplex
or
.Ar half-duplex
modes.
.It 1000baseTX
Set 1000baseTX operation over twisted pair.
Both
.Ar full-duplex
and
.Ar half-duplex
modes are supported.
.El
.Pp
The
.Nm
driver supports the following media options:
.Bl -tag -width full-duplex
.It full-duplex
Force full duplex operation.
.It half-duplex
Force half duplex operation.
.El
.Pp
The
.Nm
driver also supports one special link option for 1000baseTX cards:
.Bl -tag -width link0
.It link0
With 1000baseTX cards, establishing a link between two ports requires
that one port be configured as a master and the other a slave.
With autonegotiation,
the master/slave settings will be chosen automatically.
However when manually selecting the link state, it is necessary to
force one side of the link to be a master and the other a slave.
The
.Nm
driver configures the ports as slaves by default.
Setting the
.Cm link0
flag with
.Xr ifconfig 8
will set a port as a master instead.
.El
.Pp
For more information on configuring this device, see
.Xr ifconfig 8 .
.Sh HARDWARE
The
.Nm
driver supports VIA Networking VT3119 and VT6122 based
Gigabit Ethernet adapters including:
.Pp
.Bl -bullet -compact
.It
VIA Networking LAN-on-motherboard Gigabit Ethernet
.It
ZyXEL GN650-T 64-bit PCI Gigabit Ethernet NIC (ZX1701)
.It
ZyXEL GN670-T 32-bit PCI Gigabit Ethernet NIC (ZX1702)
.El
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
.Bl -diag
.It "vge%d: can't map mem space"
A fatal initialization error has occurred.
.It "vge%d: can't map i/o space"
A fatal initialization error has occurred.
.It "vge%d: couldn't map interrupt"
A fatal initialization error has occurred.
.It "vge%d: watchdog timeout"
The device has stopped responding to the network, or there is a problem with
the network connection (cable).
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr arp 4 ,
.Xr ciphy 4 ,
.Xr ifmedia 4 ,
.Xr intro 4 ,
.Xr netintro 4 ,
.Xr pci 4 ,
.Xr hostname.if 5 ,
.Xr ifconfig 8
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
device driver first appeared in
.Ox 3.7 .
.Sh AUTHORS
.An -nosplit
The
.Nm
driver was written by
.An Bill Paul Aq wpaul@windriver.com
and ported to
.Ox
by
.An Peter Valchev Aq pvalchev@openbsd.org .
