.\"     $OpenBSD: vio.4,v 1.10 2014/05/09 14:44:56 sf Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2012 Stefan Fritsch <sf@sfritsch.de>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: May 9 2014 $
.Dt VIO 4
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm vio
.Nd VirtIO network device
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Cd "vio* at virtio? flags 0x00"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
driver provides support for the
.Xr virtio 4
network interface provided by bhyve, KVM, QEMU, and VirtualBox.
.Pp
Setting flags to 0x02 disables the RingEventIndex feature.
This can be tried as a workaround for possible bugs in host implementations or
.Nm
at the cost of slightly reduced performance.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr intro 4 ,
.Xr virtio 4
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
driver first appeared in
.Ox 5.3 .
.Sh AUTHORS
.An -nosplit
The
.Nm
driver was ported to
.Ox
and improved by
.An Stefan Fritsch Aq Mt sf@sfritsch.de .
It is based on the
.Nx
.Nm vioif
driver by
.An Minoura Makoto .
.Sh BUGS
Due to a qemu bug, VLANs don't work with qemu versions before 2.0 unless the
interface is in promiscuous mode.
.Nm
should probably implement a workaround for this.
