.\"	$OpenBSD: vnd.4,v 1.20 2007/05/31 19:19:53 jmc Exp $
.\"	$NetBSD: vnd.4,v 1.1 1995/12/30 18:10:48 thorpej Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1995 Jason R. Thorpe.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed for the NetBSD Project
.\"	by Jason R. Thorpe.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the author nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING,
.\" BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
.\" LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED
.\" AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY,
.\" OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: May 31 2007 $
.Dt VND 4
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm vnd
.Nd Vnode Disk Driver
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Cd "pseudo-device vnd" Op Ar count
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
driver provides a disk-like interface to a file.
This is useful for a variety of applications, including swap files and
building miniroot or floppy disk images.
There are two variants, the traditional
.Nm
that bypasses the buffer cache and thus is suitable for swap on files, but
not for building disk-images, and the
.Nm svnd
.Po
.Dq safe
.Nm
.Pc
variant that goes
through the buffer cache, thereby maintaining cache-coherency after the
block-device is closed which makes it suitable for creating disk images.
The latter is not good for swapping on, though.
.Pp
This document assumes familiarity with how to generate kernels and
how to properly configure disks and pseudo-devices in a kernel
configuration file.
.Pp
In order to compile in support for
.Nm vnd
devices, a line similar to the following must be present in the kernel
configuration file:
.Bd -unfilled -offset indent
pseudo-device	vnd	4	# vnode disk driver
.Ed
.Pp
The
.Ar count
argument is how many
.Nm vnds
memory is allocated for at boot time.
In this example, no more than 4
.Nm vnds
may be configured.
.Pp
There is a run-time utility that is used for configuring
.Nm vnds .
See
.Xr vnconfig 8
for more information.
.Sh IOCTL INTERFACE
The following
.Xr ioctl 2
calls are defined in
.Aq Pa dev/vndioctl.h :
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Dv VNDIOCSET Fa "struct vnd_ioctl *"
Associate the file
.Va vnd_file
with a
.Nm
pseudo device, optionally encrypted using the Blowfish cipher and the key
specified in
.Va vnd_key
of length
.Va vnd_keylen .
Encryption only works with
.Nm svnd
devices.
The size of the configured device is returned in
.Va vnd_size .
.Bd -literal -offset indent
struct vnd_ioctl {
	char	*vnd_file;
	off_t	vnd_size;
	u_char	*vnd_key;
	int	vnd_keylen;
};
.Ed
.It Dv VNDIOCCLR Fa "struct vnd_ioctl *"
Disassociate a
.Nm
device.
.It Dv VNDIOCGET Fa "struct vnd_user *"
Get the associated file name, device, inode number, and unit number of a
.Nm
device.
If
.Va vnu_unit
is \-1, information on the
.Nm
device corresponding to the file descriptor passed to
.Xr ioctl 2
will be returned.
Otherwise,
.Va vnu_unit
may contain the unit number of another
.Nm
device.
This allows for opening just
.Li vnd0
and querying all available devices.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
struct vnd_user {
	char	vnufile[VNDNLEN];
	int	vnu_unit;
	dev_t	vnu_dev;
	ino_t	vnu_ino;
};
.Ed
.El
.Pp
Additionally, some
.Xr disklabel 8
related
.Xr ioctl 2
calls defined in
.Aq Pa sys/disklabel.h
are available:
.Dv DIOCGDINFO ,
.Dv DIOCSDINFO ,
.Dv DIOCWDINFO ,
and
.Dv DIOCWLABEL .
They are documented in
.Xr sd 4 .
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width /dev/{,r}{,s}vnd* -compact
.It Pa /dev/{,r}{,s}vnd*
.Nm
device special files
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr ioctl 2 ,
.Xr sd 4 ,
.Xr disklabel 5 ,
.Xr MAKEDEV 8 ,
.Xr config 8 ,
.Xr disklabel 8 ,
.Xr fdisk 8 ,
.Xr fsck 8 ,
.Xr mount 8 ,
.Xr newfs 8 ,
.Xr vnconfig 8
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
disk driver was originally written at the University of
Utah.
The
.Nm svnd
variant was first seen in
.Ox 2.1 .
.Sh BUGS
The
.Nm
driver does not work if the file does not reside in a local filesystem.
However the
.Nm svnd
variant does.
