.\"	$OpenBSD: wi.4tbl,v 1.80 2006/01/08 00:00:51 jmc Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1997, 1998, 1999
.\"	Bill Paul <wpaul@ctr.columbia.edu>. All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by Bill Paul.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the author nor the names of any co-contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"   without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY Bill Paul AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL Bill Paul OR THE VOICES IN HIS HEAD
.\" BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
.\" INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
.\" CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF
.\" THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	$FreeBSD: wi.4,v 1.3 1999/05/22 16:12:43 wpaul Exp $
.\"
.Dd March 23, 2004
.Dt WI 4
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm wi
.Nd "WaveLAN/IEEE, PRISM 2-3, and Spectrum24 IEEE 802.11b wireless network driver"
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Cd "# all architectures"
.Cd "wi* at pci?"
.Cd "wi* at pcmcia? function ?"
.Cd "wi* at uhub? port ?"
.Pp
.Cd "# macppc extra attachment"
.Cd "wi* at macobio?"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
driver provides support for wireless network adapters based around
the Lucent Hermes, Intersil PRISM-2, Intersil PRISM-2.5, Intersil PRISM-3,
and Symbol Spectrum24 chipsets.
All five chipsets provide a similar interface to the driver.
.Pp
The
.Nm
driver encapsulates all IP and ARP traffic as 802.11 frames, though
it can receive either 802.11 or 802.3 frames.
Transmit speed is selectable between 1Mbps fixed, 2Mbps fixed, 2Mbps
with auto fallback, 5.5Mbps, 8Mbps, or 11Mbps, depending on hardware.
.Pp
These are the modes the
.Nm
driver can operate in:
.Bl -tag -width "IBSS-masterXX"
.It BSS mode
Also known as
.Em infrastructure
mode, this is used when associating with an access point, through
which all traffic passes.
This mode is the default.
.It IBSS mode
Also known as
.Em IEEE ad-hoc
mode or
.Em peer-to-peer
mode.
This is the standardized method of operating without an access point.
Stations associate with a service set.
However, actual connections between stations are peer-to-peer
as in ad-hoc mode.
Cards with very old firmware revisions do not support this mode.
.It IBSS master
Also know as
.Em Host IBSS
mode.
In this mode the station takes on part of the role of an access point,
though traffic does not pass through it to reach the other stations.
When a group of stations are operating in IBSS mode, one of them must be
the master, specifying the network name of the service set.
.It Host AP
In this mode the driver acts as an access point (base station)
for other cards.
Only cards based on the Intersil chipsets support this mode.
Furthermore, this mode is not supported on USB devices.
.It ad-hoc mode
More accurately known as
.Em ad-hoc demo mode .
This mode does not require an access point; the adapter communicates with
other ad-hoc stations within range on a peer-to-peer basis.
This mode is not specified by the IEEE 802.11 standard and there
may be problems interoperating with adapters manufactured by different vendors.
.El
.Pp
.Nm
supports both software and hardware WEP.
Wired Equivalent Privacy (WEP) is the de facto encryption standard
for wireless networks.
It can be typically configured in one of three modes:
no encryption; 40-bit encryption; or 104-bit encryption.
Unfortunately, due to serious weaknesses in WEP protocol
it is strongly recommended that it not be used as the
sole mechanism to secure wireless communication.
WEP is not enabled by default.
.Pp
The Lucent WaveLAN/IEEE Silver and Gold cards as well as the Intersil
and Symbol cards have support for WEP encryption.
The WaveLAN Gold as well as newer Intersil and Symbol cards support
104-bit keys, the others only accept 40-bit keys.
The Lucent WaveLAN/IEEE Bronze cards do not support WEP at all.
See also
.Sx CAVEATS
below.
.Sh CONFIGURATION
The
.Nm
driver can be configured using
.Xr wicontrol 8 .
It can also be configured at runtime with
.Xr ifconfig 8
or on boot with
.Xr hostname.if 5
using the following parameters:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Cm bssid Ar bssid
Set the desired BSSID.
.It Fl bssid
Unset the desired BSSID.
The interface will automatically select a BSSID in this mode, which is
the default.
.It Cm chan Ar n
Set the channel (radio frequency) to be used by the driver based on
the given channel ID
.Ar n .
.It Fl chan
Unset the desired channel to be used by the driver.
The driver will automatically select a channel in this mode, which is
the default.
.It Cm media Ar media
The
.Nm
driver supports the following
.Ar media
types:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width autoselect -compact
.It Cm autoselect
Enable autoselection of the media type and options.
.It Cm DS1
Set 802.11b DS 1Mbps operation.
.It Cm DS2
Set 802.11b DS 2Mbps operation.
.It Cm DS5
Set 802.11b DS 5.5Mbps operation.
.It Cm DS11
Set 802.11b DS 11Mbps operation.
.El
.It Cm mediaopt Ar opts
The
.Nm
driver supports the following media options:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width ibss-master -compact
.It Cm adhoc
Select ad-hoc demo mode.
.It Cm hostap
Select Host AP operation.
.It Cm ibss
Select IBSS operation.
.It Cm ibss-master
Select IBSS master operation.
.El
.It Fl mediaopt Ar opts
Disable the specified media options on the driver and return it to the
default mode of operation (BSS).
.It Cm nwid Ar id
Set the network ID.
The
.Ar id
can either be any text string up to 32 characters in length,
or a series of hexadecimal digits up to 64 digits.
An empty
.Ar id
string allows the interface to connect to any available access points.
By default the
.Nm
driver uses an empty string.
Note that network ID is synonymous with Extended Service Set ID (ESSID).
.It Cm nwkey Ar key
Enable WEP encryption using the specified
.Ar key .
The
.Ar key
can either be a string, a series of hexadecimal digits (preceded by
.Sq 0x ) ,
or a set of keys of the form
.Dq n:k1,k2,k3,k4 ,
where
.Sq n
specifies which of the keys will be used for transmitted packets,
and the four keys,
.Dq k1
through
.Dq k4 ,
are configured as WEP keys.
If a set of keys is specified, a comma
.Pq Sq \&,
within the key must be escaped with a backslash.
Note that if multiple keys are used, their order must be the same within
the network.
.Nm
is capable of using both 40-bit (5 characters or 10 hexadecimal digits)
or 104-bit (13 characters or 26 hexadecimal digits) keys.
.It Fl nwkey
Disable WEP encryption.
This is the default mode of operation.
.It Cm nwkey persist
Enable WEP encryption with the persistent key stored in the network card.
.It Cm nwkey persist : Ns Ar key
Write
.Ar key
to the persistent memory of the network card,
and enable WEP encryption using that key.
.It Cm powersave
Enable power saving mode.
.It Fl powersave
Disable power saving mode.
This is the default mode of operation.
.It Cm powersavesleep Ar duration
Set the receiver sleep duration (in milliseconds) for power saving mode.
.It Cm txpower Ar dBm
Set the transmit power
(and disable any auto level and transmit power controls).
.It Fl txpower
Disable manual transmit power
(and enable any auto level and transmit power controls).
This is the default mode of operation.
.El
.Sh HARDWARE
Cards supported by the
.Nm
driver come in a variety of packages, though the most common
are of the PCMCIA type.
In many cases, the PCI version of a wireless card is simply
a PCMCIA card bundled with a PCI adapter.
The PCI adapters come in two flavors: true PCMCIA bridges and
dumb PCMCIA bridges.
A true PCMCIA bridge (such as those sold by Lucent) will attach
as a real PCMCIA controller.
The wireless card will then attach to the PCMCIA bus.
Wireless cards in PCMCIA slots may be inserted and ejected on the fly.
A dumb bridge, on the other hand, does not show up as a true PCMCIA bus.
The wireless card will simply appear to the host as a normal PCI
device and will not require any PCMCIA support.
Cards in this type of adapter should only be removed when the
machine is powered down.
.Pp
The following cards are among those supported by the
.Nm
driver:
.Pp
.in +\n(dIu
.TS
tab (:) nokeep ;
l l l
_ _ _
l l l .
Card:Chip:Bus
3Com AirConnect 3CRWE737A:Spectrum24:PCMCIA
3Com AirConnect 3CRWE777A:Prism-2:PCI
Acer Warplink USB-400:Prism-3:USB
Actiontec HWC01170:Prism-2.5:PCMCIA
Actiontec HWU01170:Prism-3:USB
Adaptec AWN-8030:Prism-2.5:PCMCIA
Addtron AWA-100:Prism-2:PCI
Addtron AWP-100:Prism-2:PCMCIA
Agere ORiNOCO:Hermes:PCMCIA
AirVast WM168b:Prism-3:USB
AmbiCom WL1100C-CF:Prism-3:CF
Ambit WLAN:Prism-3:USB
Apacer Wireless Steno MB112:Prism-3:USB
Apple Airport:Hermes:macobio
ARtem Onair:Hermes:PCMCIA
ASUS SpaceLink WL-100:Prism-2.5:PCMCIA
ASUS SpaceLink WL-110:Prism-2.5:CF
ASUS WL-140:Prism-3:USB
Belkin F5D6020 (version 1 only):Prism-2:PCMCIA
Belkin F5D6001 (version 1 only):Prism-2:PCI
Belkin F5D6060 (version 1 only):Prism-2.5:CF
Buffalo AirStation:Prism-2:PCMCIA
Buffalo AirStation:Prism-2:CF
Cabletron RoamAbout:Hermes:PCMCIA
Compaq Agency NC5004:Prism-2:PCMCIA
Compaq W100:Prism-3:USB
Contec FLEXLAN/FX-DS110-PCC:Prism-2:PCMCIA
Corega PCC-11:Prism-2:PCMCIA
Corega PCCA-11:Prism-2:PCMCIA
Corega PCCB-11:Prism-2:PCMCIA
Corega CGWLPCIA11:Prism-2:PCI
Corega WLUSB-11:Prism-3:USB
Corega WLUSB-11 Key:Prism-3:USB
D-Link DCF-660W:Prism-2:CF
D-Link DWL-120 (rev F):Prism-3:USB
D-Link DWL-122:Prism-3:USB
D-Link DWL-520 (rev A and B only):Prism-2.5:PCI
D-Link DWL-650 (rev A1-J3 only):Prism-2.5:PCMCIA
ELSA XI300:Prism-2:PCMCIA
ELSA XI325:Prism-2.5:PCMCIA
ELSA XI325H:Prism-2.5:PCMCIA
ELSA XI800:Prism-2:CF
EMTAC A2424i:Prism-2:PCMCIA
Ericsson Wireless LAN CARD C11:Spectrum24:PCMCIA
Gemtek WL-311:Prism-2.5:PCMCIA
Hawking Technology WE110P:Prism-2.5:PCMCIA
I-O DATA WN-B11/PCM:Prism-2:PCMCIA
I-O DATA WN-B11/USB:Prism-3:USB
Intel PRO/Wireless 2011:Spectrum24:PCMCIA
Intel PRO/Wireless 2011B:Prism-3:USB
Intersil Prism II:Prism-2:PCMCIA
Intersil Mini PCI:Prism-2.5:PCI
Intersil ISL3872:Prism-3:PCI
Intersil Prism 2X:Prism-3:USB
JVC MP-XP7250:Prism-3:USB
Linksys WCF12:Prism-3:CF
Linksys Instant Wireless WPC11:Prism-2:PCMCIA
Linksys Instant Wireless WPC11 2.5:Prism-2.5:PCMCIA
Linksys Instant Wireless WPC11 3.0:Prism-3:PCMCIA
Linksys WUSB11 v3.0:Prism-3:USB
Linksys WUSB12:Prism-3:USB
Longshine 8301:Prism-2:PCI
Lucent WaveLAN:Hermes:PCMCIA
Melco WLI-USB-KB11:Prism-3:USB
Melco WLI-USB-KS11G:Prism-3:USB
Melco WLI-USB-S11:Prism-3:USB
Microsoft MN510:Prism-3:USB
Microsoft MN520:Prism-2.5:PCMCIA
NANOSPEED ROOT-RZ2000:Prism-2:PCMCIA
NDC/Sohoware NCP130:Prism-2:PCI
NEC CMZ-RT-WP:Prism-2:PCMCIA
Netgear MA111 (version 1 only):Prism-3:USB
Netgear MA311:Prism-2.5:PCI
Netgear MA401:Prism-2:PCMCIA
Netgear MA401RA:Prism-2.5:PCMCIA
Netgear MA701:Prism-2.5:CF
Nokia C020 Wireless LAN:Prism-I:PCMCIA
Nokia C110/C111 Wireless LAN:Prism-2:PCMCIA
Nortel E-mobility 211818-A:Spectrum24:PCI
NTT-ME 11Mbps Wireless LAN:Prism-2:PCMCIA
Pheenet WL-503IA:Prism-3:USB
Planex GW-NS11H:Prism-3:PCMCIA
Planex GW-US11H:Prism-3:USB
Pretec Compact WLAN OC-WLBXX-A:Prism-2.5:CF
Proxim Harmony:Prism-2:PCMCIA
Proxim RangeLAN-DS:Prism-2:PCMCIA
Samsung MagicLAN SWL-2000N:Prism-2:PCMCIA
Samsung MagicLAN SWL-2210P:Prism-2:PCI
Senao NL-2511CF:Prism-3:CF
Senao NL-2511MP:Prism-2.5:PCI
Siemens SpeedStream SS1021:Prism-2:PCMCIA
Siemens SpeedStream SS1022:Prism-3:USB
Sitecom WL-022:Prism-3:USB
SMC 2632 EZ Connect:Prism-2:PCMCIA
Symbol Spectrum24:Spectrum24:PCMCIA
Symbol LA4123:Spectrum24:PCI
Syntax USB-400:Prism-3:USB
TDK LAK-CD011WL:Prism-2:PCMCIA
US Robotics 1120:Prism-3:USB
US Robotics 2410:Prism-2:PCMCIA
US Robotics 2445:Prism-2:PCMCIA
ViewSonic Airsync:Prism-2.5:USB
Z-Com XI-725/726:Prism-2.5:USB
Z-Com XI-735:Prism-3:USB
ZyXEL ZyAIR B-200:Prism-3:USB
.TE
.in -\n(dIu
.Pp
Note that some of the PRISM-II adapters only work at 3.3V, hence
.Xr cardbus 4
support is required for those cards to set VCC correctly, even
though they are really 16-bit cards.
.Pp
USB support is still experimental and the device may stop functioning
during normal use.
Resetting the device by configuring the interface down and back up again will
normally reactivate it.
.Pp
Several vendors sell PCI adapters built around the PLX Technology 9050
or 9052 chip.
The following such adapters are supported or expected to work:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width Ds -offset indent -compact
.It 3Com AirConnect 3CRWE777A (3.3V)
.It Addtron AWA-100
.It Belkin F5D6000 (a rebadged WL11000P)
.It Eumitcom WL11000P
.It Global Sun Technology GL24110P (untested)
.It Global Sun Technology GL24110P02
.It Linksys WDT11 (a rebadged GL24110P02)
.It Longshine 8031
.It Netgear MA301
.It Siemens/Efficient Networks SpeedStream 1023
.It US Robotics 2415 (rebadged WL11000P)
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
Note that when setting options via
.Xr wicontrol 8
in a
.Xr hostname.if 5
file (e.g.\&
.Pa /etc/hostname.wi0 ) ,
the
.Xr wicontrol 8
commands should be specified first.
.Pp
The following
.Xr hostname.if 5
example will set the channel to 11, enable software
WEP, and turn on enhanced security (SSID hiding) before configuring
the interface as a host-based access point:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
!/sbin/wicontrol \e$if -f 11 -x 1 -E 3
inet 192.168.1.1 255.255.255.0 NONE nwid my_net \e
	nwkey 0x8736639624 mediaopt hostap
.Ed
.Pp
The following
.Xr hostname.if 5
example configures wi0 to join whatever network is available on boot,
using WEP key
.Dq 0x1deadbeef1 ,
channel 11, obtaining an IP address using DHCP:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
dhcp NONE NONE NONE nwkey 0x1deadbeef1 chan 11
.Ed
.Pp
Configure wi0 for WEP, using hex key
.Dq 0x1deadbeef1 :
.Bd -literal -offset indent
# ifconfig wi0 nwkey 0x1deadbeef1
.Ed
.Pp
Return wi0 to its default settings:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
# ifconfig wi0 -bssid -chan media autoselect \e
	nwid "" -nwkey -powersave -txpower
.Ed
.Pp
Join an existing BSS network,
.Dq my_net :
.Bd -literal -offset indent
# ifconfig wi0 192.168.1.1 netmask 0xffffff00 nwid my_net
.Ed
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
.Bl -diag
.It "wi%d: init failed"
The WaveLAN card failed to come ready after an initialization command
was issued.
.It "wi%d: failed to allocate %d bytes on NIC"
The driver was unable to allocate memory for transmit frames in the
NIC's on-board RAM.
.It "wi%d: device timeout"
The WaveLAN failed to generate an interrupt to acknowledge a transmit
command.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr arp 4 ,
.Xr ifmedia 4 ,
.Xr intro 4 ,
.Xr netintro 4 ,
.Xr pci 4 ,
.Xr pcmcia 4 ,
.Xr usb 4 ,
.Xr hostname.if 5 ,
.Xr ifconfig 8 ,
.Xr wicontrol 8
.Rs
.%T HCF Light programming specification
.%O http://www.wavelan.com
.Re
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
device driver first appeared in
.Fx 3.0 .
.Ox
support was added in
.Ox 2.6 .
.Sh AUTHORS
The
.Nm
driver was written by
.An Bill Paul Aq wpaul@ctr.columbia.edu
and ported to
.Ox
by
.An Niklas Hallqvist Aq niklas@appli.se .
.Sh CAVEATS
The original Lucent WaveLAN cards usually default to channel 3;
newer cards use channel 10 by default.
Non-Lucent cards vary, for instance the Addtron cards use channel
11 by default.
See
.Xr wicontrol 8
for information on how to change the channel.
.Pp
Not all 3.3V
.Nm
PCMCIA cards work.
.Pp
IBSS creation does not currently work with Symbol cards.
.Pp
The host-based access point mode on the Intersil PRISM cards has
bugs when used with firmware versions prior to 0.8.3 and is completely
unusable with firmware versions prior to 0.8.0 and 1.4.0-1.4.2.
.Pp
Software WEP is currently only supported in HostAP and BSS modes.
Furthermore, software WEP is currently incapable of decrypting
fragmented frames.
Lucent-based cards using firmware 8.10 and above fragment encrypted
frames sent at 11Mbps.
To work around this, Lucent clients with this firmware revision
connecting to a HostAP server should use a 2Mbps connection or
upgrade their firmware to version 8.72.
.Pp
HostAP mode doesn't support WDS or power saving.
Clients attempting to use power saving mode may experience
significant packet loss
(disabling power saving on the client will fix this).
.Pp
Support for USB devices is buggy.
HostAP mode and AP scanning are not currently supported with USB devices.
