.\" $OpenBSD: wsdisplay.4,v 1.29 2004/09/30 19:59:26 mickey Exp $
.\" $NetBSD: wsdisplay.4,v 1.5 2000/05/13 15:22:19 mycroft Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1999 Matthias Drochner.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd February 29, 2004
.Dt WSDISPLAY 4
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm wsdisplay
.Nd generic display device support in wscons
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.\".Cd wsdisplay* at ega?
.\"(EGA display on ISA)
.Cd "wsdisplay* at vga?"
(VGA textmode display on ISA or PCI)
.Cd "wsdisplay* at pcdisplay?"
(generic PC (ISA) display)
.Cd "wsdisplay* at vgafb?"
(VGA graphics display on PCI, as found on macppc and sparc64 platforms)
.Cd "wsdisplay* at tga?"
(DEC TGA display, alpha only)
.\" .Cd wsdisplay* at nextdisplay?
.\" (NeXT display)
.Cd "wsdisplay* at sti?"
(HP CRX and Visualize series framebuffers)
.Cd "wsdisplay* at agten?"
.Cd "wsdisplay* at bwtwo?"
.Cd "wsdisplay* at cgtwo?"
.Cd "wsdisplay* at cgthree?"
.Cd "wsdisplay* at cgfour?"
.Cd "wsdisplay* at cgsix?"
.Cd "wsdisplay* at cgeight?"
.Cd "wsdisplay* at cgtwelve?"
.Cd "wsdisplay* at cgfourteen?"
.Cd "wsdisplay* at mgx?"
.Cd "wsdisplay* at pninek?"
.Cd "wsdisplay* at pnozz?"
.Cd "wsdisplay* at rfx?"
.Cd "wsdisplay* at tcx?"
.Cd "wsdisplay* at tvtwo?"
.Cd "wsdisplay* at vigra?"
.Cd "wsdisplay* at zx?"
(sparc and/or sparc64 framebuffers)
.Cd "wsdisplay* at creator?"
(sparc64 framebuffers)
.Cd "wsdisplay0 at smg?"
(VAXstation small monochrome display)
.Cd "option WSDISPLAY_DEFAULTSCREENS=N"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
driver is an abstraction layer for display devices within the
.Xr wscons 4
framework.
It attaches to the hardware specific display device driver and
makes it available as text terminal or graphics interface.
.Pp
A display device can have the ability to display characters on it
(without help of an X server), either directly by hardware or through
software drawing pixel data into the display memory.
Such displays are called
.Dq emulating ,
the
.Nm
driver will connect a terminal emulation module and provide a
tty-like software interface.
In contrary, non-emulating displays can only be used by special programs
like X servers.
.Pp
The
.Em console
locator in the configuration line refers to the device's use as output
part of the operating system console.
A device specification containing a positive value here will only match
if the device is in use as system console.
(The console device selection in early system startup is not influenced.)
This way, the console device can be connected to a known
.Nm wsdisplay
device instance.
(Naturally, only
.Dq emulating
display devices are usable as console.)
.Pp
The logical unit of an independent contents displayed on a display
(sometimes referred to as
.Dq virtual terminal )
is called a
.Dq screen
here.
If the underlying device driver supports it, multiple screens can
be used on one display.
(As of this writing, only the
.Xr vga 4
and the
.Tn VAX
.Dq smg
display drivers provide this ability.)
Screens have different minor device numbers and separate tty instances.
One screen possesses the
.Dq focus ,
this means it is displayed on the display and its tty device will get
the keyboard input.
(In some cases, if no screen is set up or if a screen
was just deleted, it is possible that no focus is present at all.)
The focus can be switched by either special keyboard input (typically
CTL-ALT-Fn) or an ioctl command issued by a user program.
Screens are set up or deleted through the
.Pa /dev/ttyCcfg
control device (preferably using the
.Xr wsconscfg 8
utility).
Alternatively, the compile-time option
.Cm WSDISPLAY_DEFAULTSCREENS=N
will set up N screens of the display driver's default type and using
the system's default terminal emulator at autoconfiguration time.
.Pp
In addition and with help from backend drivers the following features
are also provided:
.Bl -bullet
.It
Loading, deleting and listing the loaded fonts.
.It
Browsing backwards in the screen output, the size of the
buffer for saved text is defined by the particular hardware driver.
.It
Blanking the screen by timing out on inactivity in the
screen holding the input focus.
Awakening activities consist of:
.Pp
.Bl -bullet -compact
.It
pressing any keys on the keyboard;
.It
moving or clicking the mouse;
.It
any output to the screen.
.El
.Pp
Blanking the screen is usually done by disabling the horizontal sync
signal on video output, but may also include blanking the vertical
sync in which case most monitors go into power saving mode.
See
.Xr wsconsctl 8
for controlling variables.
.El
.Pp
Consult the back-end drivers' documentation for which features are supported
for each particular hardware type.
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width /usr/include/dev/wscons/wsconsio.h -compact
.It Pa /dev/tty[C-F]*
terminal devices (per screen)
.It Pa /dev/tty[C-F]cfg
control device (per screen)
.It Pa /usr/include/dev/wscons/wsconsio.h
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr agten 4 ,
.Xr bwtwo 4 ,
.Xr cgeight 4 ,
.Xr cgfour 4 ,
.Xr cgfourteen 4 ,
.Xr cgsix 4 ,
.Xr cgthree 4 ,
.Xr cgtwelve 4 ,
.Xr cgtwo 4 ,
.Xr creator 4 ,
.Xr intro 4 ,
.Xr mgx 4 ,
.Xr pcdisplay 4 ,
.Xr pninek 4 ,
.Xr pnozz 4 ,
.Xr rfx 4 ,
.Xr sti 4 ,
.Xr tcx 4 ,
.Xr tga 4 ,
.Xr tty 4 ,
.Xr tvtwo 4 ,
.Xr vga 4 ,
.Xr vgafb 4 ,
.Xr vigra 4 ,
.Xr wscons 4 ,
.Xr zx 4 ,
.Xr wsconscfg 8 ,
.Xr wsconsctl 8 ,
.Xr wsfontload 8
.Sh BUGS
The
.Nm
code currently limits the number of screens on one display to 8.
.Pp
The terms
.Dq wscons
and
.Dq wsdisplay
are not cleanly distinguished in the code and in manual pages.
.Pp
.Dq non-emulating
display devices are not tested.
