.\" $OpenBSD: wsmouse.4,v 1.12 2005/12/20 01:41:43 brad Exp $
.\" $NetBSD: wsmouse.4,v 1.3 1999/12/06 14:52:08 augustss Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1999
.\" 	Matthias Drochner.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd April 22, 2005
.Dt WSMOUSE 4
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm wsmouse
.Nd generic mouse support in wscons
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Cd "wsmouse*   at pms? mux 0"
(PS/2 mouse)
.Cd "wsmouse*   at pmsi? mux 0"
(
.Dq IntelliMouse
-compatible wheel mouse with PS/2 interface)
.Cd "wsmouse*   at ums? mux 0"
(USB mouse)
.Cd "wsmouse*   at lms? mux 0"
(Logitech bus mouse, i386 only)
.Cd "wsmouse*   at mms? mux 0"
(Microsoft InPort mouse, i386 only)
.Cd "wsmouse*   at ams? mux 0"
(Apple ADB mouse)
.Cd "wsmouse*   at tpms? mux 0"
(Apple touchpad mouse)
.Cd "wsmouse*	at hilms? mux 0"
(HIL mouse)
.Cd "wsmouse*   at zts? mux 0"
(Zaurus touchscreen)
.Cd "wsmouse*   at dnkbd? mux 0"
(Apollo Domain mouse)
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
driver is an abstraction layer for mice within the
.Xr wscons 4
framework.
It is attached to the hardware specific mouse drivers and
provides a character device interface which returns
.Fa struct wscons_event
via
.Xr read 2 .
For use with X servers,
.Dq mouse events
can be generated.
.Pp
The
.Nm
driver provides a number of ioctl functions to control various parameters (see
.Pa /usr/include/dev/wscons/wsconsio.h ) .
The
.Xr wsconsctl 8
utility gives access to these variables.
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width /usr/include/dev/wscons/wsconsio.h -compact
.It Pa /dev/wsmouse*
.It Pa /usr/include/dev/wscons/wsconsio.h
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr ams 4 ,
.Xr dnkbd 4 ,
.Xr hilms 4 ,
.Xr intro 4 ,
.Xr lms 4 ,
.Xr mms 4 ,
.Xr pms 4 ,
.Xr tpms 4 ,
.Xr ums 4 ,
.Xr wscons 4 ,
.Xr wsmux 4 ,
.Xr zts 4 ,
.Xr wsconsctl 8 ,
.Xr wsmoused 8
