.\"	$OpenBSD: wx.4,v 1.2 2000/02/12 22:23:25 jason Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2000
.\"	Traakan Software. All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY Bill Paul AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL Bill Paul OR THE VOICES IN HIS HEAD
.\" BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
.\" INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
.\" CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF
.\" THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD: src/share/man/man4/wx.4,v 1.1 2000/01/29 22:04:28 mjacob Exp $
.\"
.Dd January 29, 2000
.Dt WX 4
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm wx
.Nd
Intel Gigabit Ethernet device driver
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Cd "wx* at pci? dev ? function ?"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm wx
driver provides support for Intel Gigabit Ethernet PCI cards based on the
.Tn i82452
chipset such as the Intel Pro/1000 Gigabit Server Adapter.
.Pp
For more information on configuring this device, see
.Xr ifconfig 8 .
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
.Bl -diag
.It "wx%d: can't map registers"
A fatal initialization error has occurred.
.It "wx%d: couldn't map interrupt"
A fatal initialization error has occurred.
.It "wx%d: couldn't establish interrupt"
The device failed to allocate an interrupt (irq) line.
.It "wx%d: len (%lx) over a page for the receive ring"
The size of the receive ring is larger than the hardware page size.
.It "wx%d: could not allocate rcv descriptors"
The device failed to allocate memory for the receive descriptors.
.It "wx%d: rcv descriptors not 4KB aligned"
The memory management system returned memory for the receive descriptors
that was not aligned correctly.
.It "wx%d: len (%lx) over a page for the xmit ring"
The size of the transmit ring is larger than the hardware page size.
.It "wx%d: could not allocate xmt descriptors"
The device failed to allocate memory for the transmit descriptors.
.It "wx%d: xmt descriptors not 4KB aligned"
The memory management system returned memory for the transmit descriptors
that was not aligned correctly.
.It "wx%d: failed to do common attach (%d)"
The operating system independent section of the device driver
initialization failed.
.It "wx%d: link intr 0x%x"
The device has sensed a change in its link to the network.
.It "wx%d: packet with errors (%x)"
.It "wx%d: receive descriptor with no mbuf"
.It "wx%d: lost sync with partial packet"
.It "wx%d: null mbuf in gc"
.It ""
.It "wx%d: excess collisions"
The device has dropped a packet because too many collisions were seen
when trying to send it.
.It "wx%d: lost carrier"
The device has lost link integrity with the network, most likely a cabling
problem.
.It "wx%d: nactive < 0?"
.It "wx%d: swdpio did not clear"
.It ""
.It "wx%d: link never came up"
The device never saw the link to the network established.
.It "wx%d: device timeout"
The device has stopped responding to the network,
or there is a problem with the network connection (cable).
.It "wx%d: could not re-init device"
An error occured when trying to reset the device.
.It "wx%d: could not set up rbufs"
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr arp 4 ,
.Xr ifmedia 4 ,
.Xr netintro 4 ,
.Xr ifconfig 8
.Sh AUTHOR
The
.Nm
driver was written by
.An Matthew Jacob Aq mjacob@freebsd.org .
.Sh HISTORY
.Ox
support for the
.Nm
device driver first appeared in
.Ox 2.7 .
.Sh BUGS
The
.Nm
has not got a very good recovery from link-up/link-down events.
