.\"	$OpenBSD: xl.4,v 1.25 2002/09/26 22:09:53 miod Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1997, 1998
.\"     Bill Paul <wpaul@ctr.columbia.edu>. All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"     This product includes software developed by Bill Paul.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the author nor the names of any co-contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"   without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY Bill Paul AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL Bill Paul OR THE VOICES IN HIS HEAD
.\" BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
.\" INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
.\" CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF
.\" THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     $FreeBSD: xl.4,v 1.1 1998/08/16 17:19:58 wpaul Exp $
.\"
.Dd August 16, 1998
.Dt XL 4
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm xl
.Nd 3Com EtherLink XL and Fast EtherLink XL Ethernet driver
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Cd "xl* at pci? dev ? function ?"
.Cd "xl* at cardbus? dev ? function ?"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
device driver supports the 3Com EtherLink XL and Fast EtherLink XL family
of Ethernet cards, and embedded controllers based on the 3Com
.Dq boomerang
and
.Dq cyclone
bus master EtherLink XL chips.
This includes, among others, the following models:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width 3CXXXX -offset indent -compact
.It 3C555
EtherLink XL MiniPCI
.It 3C556
EtherLink XL MiniPCI
.It 3C556B
EtherLink XL MiniPCI
.It 3C575
10/100 LAN CardBus PC Card
.It 3C656
10/100 LAN+Modem CardBus PC Card
.It 3C900
EtherLink XL PCI
.It 3C900B
EtherLink XL PCI
.It 3C905
Fast EtherLink XL PCI
.It 3C905B
Fast EtherLink XL PCI
.It 3C905C
Fast EtherLink XL PCI
.It 3C980
Fast EtherLink Server NIC
.It 3CSOHO
OfficeConnect Fast Ethernet NIC
.El
.Pp
It also supports embedded 3C905-TX and 3C905B-TX Ethernet hardware found
in certain Dell OptiPlex and Dell Precision desktop machines, as well as
some Dell Latitude laptop docking stations.
Other models of 3Com network cards are supported by the
.Xr ec 4 ,
.Xr eg 4 ,
.Xr el 4 ,
.Xr ep 4 ,
and
.Xr ie 4
drivers.
.Pp
Category 3, 4 or 5 unshielded twisted-pair (UTP) cable should be used for
RJ-45 (10baseT), thick Ethernet coaxial (RG59 B/U, 50 ohm) for AUI/DIX,
and thin Ethernet coaxial (RG58 A/U or C/U, 50 ohm +/- 4) for BNC (10base2).
Some 3Com NICs also support MII connectors (switchable 10/100Mbps UTP).
The 3C905B-FX and other similar cards are capable of 100Mbps over fiber.
.Pp
The 3C985 series of Gigabit cards are supported by the
.Xr ti 4
driver.
.Pp
Hardware TCP/IP checksum offloading for IPv4 is supported on the 3C905B.
.Pp
The following media types and options (as given to
.Xr ifconfig 8 )
are supported:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width xxx -offset indent
.It Cm media No autoselect
Enable autoselection of media type and options.
Note that this media type is only available with
adapters that have external PHYs or built-in autonegotiation logic.
For 3C900 and 3C900B adapters, the driver
will choose the mode specified in the EEPROM.
You can change this by adding media options to the appropriate
.Xr hostname.if 5
file.
.It Cm media No 100baseFX Cm mediaopt No full-duplex
For those cards that support it, force full-duplex 100Mbps operation over fiber.
.It Cm media No 100baseFX Cm mediaopt No half-duplex
For those cards that support it, force half-duplex 100Mbps operation over fiber.
.It Cm media No 100baseTX Cm mediaopt No full-duplex
Set 100Mbps (Fast Ethernet) operation and force full-duplex mode.
.It Cm media No 100baseTX Cm mediaopt No half-duplex
Set 100Mbps (Fast Ethernet) operation and force half-duplex mode.
.It Cm media No 10baseT Cm mediaopt No full-duplex
Set 10baseT (UTP) operation and force full-duplex mode.
.It Cm media No 10baseT Cm mediaopt No half-duplex
Set 10baseT (UTP) operation and force half-duplex mode.
.It Cm media No 10base5
Set 10base5 (thick-net) operation (half-duplex only).
.It Cm media No 10base2
Set 10base2 (thin-net) operation (half-duplex only).
.El
.Pp
For more information on configuring this device, see
.Xr ifconfig 8 .
To view a list of media types and options supported by your card try
.Ic ifconfig -m <device> .
For example,
.Ic ifconfig -m xl0 .
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
.Bl -diag
.It "xl%d: couldn't map memory"
A fatal initialization error has occurred.
.It "xl%d: couldn't map interrupt"
A fatal initialization error has occurred.
.It "xl%d: device timeout"
The device has stopped responding to the network, or there is a problem with
the network connection (cable).
.It "xl%d: no memory for rx list"
The driver failed to allocate an mbuf for the receiver ring.
.It "xl%d: no memory for tx list"
The driver failed to allocate an mbuf for the transmitter ring when
allocating a pad buffer or collapsing an mbuf chain into a cluster.
.It "xl%d: command never completed!"
Some commands issued to the 3C90x ASIC take time to complete: the
driver is supposed to wait until the
.Dq command in progress
bit in the status register clears before continuing.
In rare instances, this bit may not clear.
To avoid getting caught in an infinite wait loop,
the driver only polls the bit a finite number of times before
giving up, at which point it issues this message.
This message may be printed during driver initialization on slower machines.
If you see this message but the driver continues to function normally, the
message can probably be ignored.
.It "xl%d: chip is in D3 power state -- setting to D0"
This message applies only to 3C905B adapters, which support power management.
Some operating systems place the 3C905B in low power
mode when shutting down, and some PCI BIOSs fail to bring the chip
out of this state before configuring it.
The 3C905B loses all of its PCI configuration in the D3 state, so if the
BIOS does not set it back to full power mode in time,
it won't be able to configure it correctly.
The driver tries to detect this condition and bring
the adapter back to the D0 (full power) state, but this may not be
enough to return the driver to a fully operational condition.
If you see this message at boot time and the driver fails to attach
the device as a network interface, you will have to perform second
warm boot to have the device properly configured.
.Pp
Note that this condition only occurs when warm booting from another
operating system.
If you power down your system prior to booting
.Ox ,
the card should be configured correctly.
.It "xl%d: WARNING: no media options bits set in the media options register!"
This warning may appear when using the driver on some Dell Latitude
docking stations with built-in 3C905-TX adapters.
For whatever the reason, the
.Dq MII available
bit in the media options register on
this particular equipment is not set, even though it should be (the
3C905-TX always uses an external PHY transceiver).
The driver will
attempt to guess the proper media type based on the PCI device ID word.
The driver makes a lot of noise about this condition because
the author considers it a manufacturing defect.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr arp 4 ,
.Xr cardbus 4 ,
.Xr ec 4 ,
.Xr eg 4 ,
.Xr el 4 ,
.Xr ep 4 ,
.Xr ie 4 ,
.Xr ifmedia 4 ,
.Xr intro 4 ,
.Xr ti 4 ,
.Xr netintro 4 ,
.Xr hostname.if 5 ,
.Xr ifconfig 8
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
device driver first appeared in
.Fx 3.0 .
.Ox
support was added in
.Ox 2.4 .
.Sh AUTHORS
The
.Nm
driver was written by
.An Bill Paul Aq wpaul@ctr.columbia.edu .
