.\" Copyright (c) 2004 Alex Vasylenko <lxv@omut.org>
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
.\" from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology --
.\" Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base
.\" Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of
.\" Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the
.\" event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
.\" The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is
.\" the referee document.  The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\"	http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" $OpenBSD: pthread_atfork.3,v 1.7 2005/11/01 19:27:58 fgsch Exp $
.\" $FreeBSD: /repoman/r/ncvs/src/share/man/man3/pthread_atfork.3,v 1.3 2005/06/16 18:46:16 ru Exp $
.\"
.Dd June 21, 2004
.Dt PTHREAD_ATFORK 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm pthread_atfork
.Nd register fork handlers
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Fd #include <pthread.h>
.Pp
.Ft int
.Fn pthread_atfork "void (*prepare)(void)" "void (*parent)(void)" "void (*child)(void)"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn pthread_atfork
function declares fork handlers to be called before and after
.Xr fork 2 ,
in the context of the thread that called
.Xr fork 2 .
The
.Fa prepare
fork handler will be called before
.Xr fork 2
processing commences.
The
.Fa parent
fork handle will be called after
.Xr fork 2
processing completes in the parent process.
The
.Fa child
fork handler will be called after
.Xr fork 2
processing completes in the child process.
.Pp
If no handling is desired at one or more of these three points, the
corresponding fork handler address(es) may be set to NULL.
.Pp
Multiple sets of handlers can be installed by calling
.Fn pthread_atfork
several times.
The
.Fa parent
and
.Fa child
fork handlers will be called in the order in which they were
established by calls to
.Fn pthread_atfork
while the
.Fa prepare
fork handlers will be called in the opposite order.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion,
.Fn pthread_atfork
returns a value of zero; otherwise, an error number is returned
to indicate the error.
.Sh ERRORS
The
.Fn pthread_atfork
function will fail if:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er ENOMEM
Insufficient table space exists to record the fork handler addresses.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr fork 2
.Sh STANDARDS
The
.Fn pthread_atfork
function is expected to conform to
.St -p1003.1 .
