.\" $OpenBSD: sigwait.3,v 1.4 1999/03/10 10:04:42 d Exp $
.Dd August 20, 1998
.Os
.Dt SIGWAIT 3
.Sh NAME
.Nm sigwait
.Nd synchonously accept a signal
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Fd #include <signal.h>
.Ft int
.Fn sigwait "sont sigset_t *set" "int *sig"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn sigwait
function selects a pending signal from
.Fa set ,
atomically clears it from the system's set of pending signals, and returns
that signal number in the location referenced by
.Fa sig .
If prior to the call to
.Fn sigwait
there are multiple pending instances of a single signal number,
it is undefined whether upon successful return there are any remaining pending signals for that signal number.
If no signal in
.Fa set
is pending at the time of the call,
the thread shall be suspended until one or more becomes pending.
The signals defined by
.Fa set
should have been blocked at the time of the call to
.Fn sigwait ;
otherwise the behaviour is undefined.
The effect of
.Fn sigwait
on the signal actions for the signals in
.Fa set
is unspecified.
.Pp
If more than one thread is using
.Fn sigwait
to wait for the same signal,
no more than one of these threads shall return from
.Fn sigwait
with the signal number.
Which thread returns from
.Fn sigwait
if more than a single thread is waiting is unspecified.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion,
.Fn sigwait
stores the signal number of the recived signal at the location referenced by
.Fa sig
and returns zero.
.Sh ERRORS
On error,
.Fn sigwait
returns one of these error values:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EINVAL
The
.Fa set
argument contains an invalid or unsupported signal number
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr pause 2 ,
.Xr sigaction 2 ,
.Xr sigpending 2 ,
.Xr sigsuspend 2 ,
.Xr pthreads 3 ,
.Xr pthread_sigmask 3
.Sh STANDARDS
.Fn sigwait
conforms to ISO/IEC 9945-1 ANSI/IEEE
.Pq Dq Tn POSIX
Std 1003.1c/D10.
.\" Std 1003.1 Second Edition 1996-07-12.
