.\" Copyright (c) 2018 Yubico AB. All rights reserved.
.\" Use of this source code is governed by a BSD-style
.\" license that can be found in the LICENSE file.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: February 7 2020 $
.Dt FIDO_DEV_SET_IO_FUNCTIONS 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm fido_dev_set_io_functions
.Nd FIDO 2 device I/O interface
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In fido.h
.Bd -literal
typedef void *fido_dev_io_open_t(const char *);
typedef void  fido_dev_io_close_t(void *);
typedef int   fido_dev_io_read_t(void *, unsigned char *, size_t, int);
typedef int   fido_dev_io_write_t(void *, const unsigned char *, size_t);

typedef struct fido_dev_io {
	fido_dev_io_open_t  *open;
	fido_dev_io_close_t *close;
	fido_dev_io_read_t  *read;
	fido_dev_io_write_t *write;
} fido_dev_io_t;
.Ed
.Ft int
.Fn fido_dev_set_io_functions "fido_dev_t *dev" "const fido_dev_io_t *io"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
interface defines the I/O handlers used to talk to
.Fa dev .
Its usage is optional.
By default,
.Em libfido2
will use the operating system's native HID interface to talk to
a FIDO device.
.Pp
A
.Vt fido_dev_io_open_t
function is expected to return a non-NULL opaque pointer on success,
and NULL on error.
The returned opaque pointer is never dereferenced by
.Em libfido2 .
.Pp
A
.Vt fido_dev_io_close_t
function receives the opaque handle obtained from
.Vt fido_dev_io_open_t .
It is not expected to be idempotent.
.Pp
A
.Vt fido_dev_io_read_t
function reads from
.Fa dev .
The first parameter taken is the opaque handle obtained from
.Vt fido_dev_io_open_t .
The read buffer is pointed to by the second parameter, and the
third parameter holds its size.
Finally, the last argument passed to
.Vt fido_dev_io_read_t
is the number of milliseconds the caller is willing to sleep,
should the call need to block.
If this value holds -1,
.Vt fido_dev_io_read_t
may block indefinitely.
The number of bytes read is returned.
On error, -1 is returned.
.Pp
Conversely, a
.Vt fido_dev_io_write_t
function writes to
.Fa dev .
The first parameter taken is the opaque handle returned by
.Vt fido_dev_io_open_t .
The write buffer is pointed to by the second parameter, and the
third parameter holds its size.
A
.Vt fido_dev_io_write_t
function may block.
The number of bytes written is returned.
On error, -1 is returned.
.Pp
No references to
.Fa io
are held by
.Fn fido_dev_set_io_functions .
.Sh RETURN VALUES
On success,
.Fn fido_dev_set_io_functions
returns
.Dv FIDO_OK .
On error, a different error code defined in
.In fido/err.h
is returned.
