.\" Copyright (c) 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016 pkgconf authors (see AUTHORS).
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and/or distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" This software is provided 'as is' and without any warranty, express or
.\" implied.  In no event shall the authors be liable for any damages arising
.\" from the use of this software.
.Dd $Mdocdate: May 9 2025 $
.Dt PKG-CONFIG 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm pkg-config
.Nd a system for configuring build dependency information
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Ar options
.Ar module ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a program which helps to configure compiler and linker flags for
development libraries.
This allows build systems to detect other dependencies and use them with the
system toolchain.
.Pp
The
.Ar options
are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl -atleast-pkgconfig-version Ns = Ns Ar version
Exit with error if the requested
.Ar version
number is greater than the version number of the
.Nm
program.
.It Fl -atleast-version Ns = Ns Ar version
Exit with error if the version number of each
.Ar module
is less than the specified
.Ar version
number.
.It Fl -cflags , Fl -cflags-only-I , Fl -cflags-only-other
Print all compiler flags required to compile against the
.Ar module ,
or only the include path
.Pq Fl I
flags, or only the compiler flags that are not include path flags,
respectively.
.It Fl -debug
Print some non-fatal warning messages to standard error output
that would otherwise silently be ignored.
If
.Nm
was compiled without defining the preprocessor macro
.Dv PKGCONF_LITE ,
this option also prints many debugging messages to standard error output.
.It Fl -define-prefix
Attempts to determine the prefix variable to use for CFLAGS and LIBS entry relocations.
This is mainly useful for platforms where framework SDKs are relocatable, such as Windows.
.It Fl -define-variable Ns = Ns Ar varname Ns = Ns Ar value
Define
.Ar varname
as
.Ar value .
Variables are used in query output, and some modules' results may change based
on the presence of a variable definition.
.It Fl -digraph
Dump the dependency resolver's solution as a graphviz
.Sq dot
file.
This can be used with graphviz to visualize module interdependencies.
This option is only available if the preprocessor macro
.Dv PKGCONF_LITE
was not defined during compilation.
.It Fl -dont-define-prefix
Disables the
.Sq define-prefix
feature.
.It Fl -dont-relocate-paths
Disables the path relocation feature.
.It Fl -env Ns = Ns Ar varname
Print the requested values as variable declarations in a similar format as the
.Xr env 1
command.
.It Fl -env-only
Initialize the module search path from
.Fl -with-path
and
.Ev PKG_CONFIG_PATH
only, ignoring
.Ev PKG_CONFIG_LIBDIR
and the compiled-in default directories.
.It Fl -errors-to-stdout
Print all error, warning, and debugging messages to standard output
instead of to standard error output.
.It Fl -exact-version Ns = Ns Ar version
Exit with error if no
.Ar module
has exactly the specified
.Ar version
number.
.It Fl -exists
Exit with a non-zero exit status
if the dependency resolver is unable to find all of the requested
.Ar module Ns s .
This option is active by default and cannot be disabled.
However, various other options cause
.Nm
to exit and report success or failure before all arguments have been inspected.
.It Fl -fragment-filter Ns = Ns Ar types
Filter the fragment lists for the specified
.Ar types .
.It Fl -ignore-conflicts
Ignore
.Sq Conflicts
rules in modules.
.It Fl -keep-system-cflags , Fl -keep-system-libs
Keep CFLAGS or linker flag fragments that would be filtered due to being
included by default in the compiler.
.It Fl -libs , Fl -libs-only-L , Fl -libs-only-l , Fl -libs-only-other
Print all linker flags required to link against the
.Ar module ,
or only the library path
.Pq Fl L
flags, or only the library
.Pq Fl l
flags, or only the linker flags that are neither library path
nor library flags, respectively.
.It Fl -list-all
Walk the module search path in the order of descending priority.
For each
.Xr pc 5
file found, print one line to standard output,
containing the basename of the file without the extension, the
.Ic Name
property, a dash
.Pq Sq \- ,
and the
.Ic Description
property.
.It Fl -max-version Ns = Ns Ar version
Exit with error if the version number of each
.Ar module
is greater than the specified
.Ar version
number.
.It Fl -maximum-traverse-depth Ns = Ns Ar depth
Impose a limit on the allowed depth in the dependency graph.
For example, a
.Ar depth
of 2 restricts the resolver from acting on child
dependencies of modules added to the resolver's solution.
.It Fl -modversion
For each specified
.Ar module ,
print the version number to standard output.
If the
.Fl -verbose
option is also specified, the name of the respective
.Ar module
and a colon is printed before each version number.
This option implies
.Fl -maximum-traverse-depth Ns =1
and overrides and disables all
.Fl -cflags
and
.Fl -libs
flags.
.It Fl -no-cache
Skip caching packages when they are loaded into the internal resolver.
This may result in an alternate dependency graph being computed.
.It Fl -no-provides
Ignore
.Sq Provides
rules in modules when resolving dependencies.
.It Fl -no-uninstalled
Forbids the dependency resolver from considering 'uninstalled' modules as part
of a solution.
.It Fl -path
For the first
.Ar module
given on the command line, let the dependency resolver find the
.Xr pc 5
file describing that module, print the absolute pathname of that file
to standard output, and exit immediately,
ignoring most other options and all other arguments.
.It Fl -prefix-variable Ns = Ns Ar variable
Sets the
.Sq prefix
variable used by the
.Sq define-prefix
feature.
.It Fl -print-errors
Print some messages about fatal errors to standard error output
that would otherwise be omitted.
This option is implied by many other options, but not by all.
It can be overridden with
.Fl -silence-errors .
.It Fl -print-provides
For each specified
.Ar module ,
print one line to standard output containing the
.Ic Name
property, an equal sign
.Pq Sq = ,
and the
.Ic Version
property.
If the
.Ar module
contains one or more
.Ic Provides
properties, print additional lines in dependency list format, one name
per line, each name optionally followed by an operator and a version.
This option implies
.Fl -maximum-traverse-depth Ns =1
and overrides and disables all
.Fl -cflags
and
.Fl -libs
flags.
.It Fl -print-requires , Fl -print-requires-private
For each specified
.Ar module ,
print the
.Ic Requires
or
.Ic Requires.private
properties, respectively, in dependency list format to standard output.
Both of these options imply
.Fl -maximum-traverse-depth Ns =1
and override and disable all
.Fl -cflags
and
.Fl -libs
flags.
.It Fl -print-variables
Print all seen variables for a module to the output channel.
.It Fl -pure
Treats the computed dependency graph as if it were pure.
This is mainly intended for use with the
.Fl -static
flag.
.It Fl -relocate Ns = Ns Ar path
Relocates a path using the pkgconf_path_relocate API.
This is mainly used by the testsuite to provide a guaranteed interface
to the system's path relocation backend.
.It Fl -shared
Compute a simple dependency graph that is only suitable for shared linking.
.It Fl -silence-errors
Do not print any error, warning, or debugging messages at all.
Overrides all of
.Fl -debug ,
.Fl -errors-to-stdout ,
and
.Fl -print-errors .
.It Fl -simulate
Simulates resolving a dependency graph based on the requested modules on the
command line.
Dumps a series of trees denoting pkgconf's resolver state.
This option is only available if the preprocessor macro
.Dv PKGCONF_LITE
was not defined during compilation.
.It Fl -static
Compute a deeper dependency graph and use compiler/linker flags intended for
static linking.
.It Fl -uninstalled
Exit with a non-zero result if the dependency resolver uses an
.Sq uninstalled
module as part of its solution.
.It Fl -validate Ar package ...
Validate specific
.Sq .pc
files for correctness.
.It Fl -variable Ns = Ns Ar varname
Print the value of
.Ar varname .
.It Fl -verbose
This option only has an effect if
.Fl -modversion
is also specified.
It prints the name of the respective
.Ar module
and a colon before each version number.
.It Fl -version
Print the version number of the
.Nm
program to standard output and exit.
Most other options and all command line arguments are ignored.
.It Fl -with-path Ns = Ns Ar path
Prepend the directory
.Ar path
to the module search path,
giving it priority over all other directories including those from
.Ev PKG_CONFIG_PATH
and
.Ev PKG_CONFIG_LIBDIR .
.El
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Ev DESTDIR
If set to PKG_CONFIG_SYSROOT_DIR, assume that PKG_CONFIG_FDO_SYSROOT_RULES is set.
.It Ev PKG_CONFIG_DEBUG_SPEW
If set, enables additional debug logging.
The format of the debug log messages is implementation-specific.
.It Ev PKG_CONFIG_DISABLE_UNINSTALLED
If set, enables the same behaviour as the
.Fl -no-uninstalled
flag.
.It Ev PKG_CONFIG_DONT_RELOCATE_PATHS
If set, disables the path relocation feature.
.It Ev PKG_CONFIG_FDO_SYSROOT_RULES
If set, follow the sysroot prefixing rules that freedesktop.org pkg-config uses.
.It Ev PKG_CONFIG_LIBDIR
A colon-separated list of low-priority directories where
.Xr pc 5
files are looked up.
The module search path is constructed by appending this list to
.Ev PKG_CONFIG_PATH ,
which enjoys higher priority.
If
.Ev PKG_CONFIG_LIBDIR
is not defined, the default list compiled into the
.Nm
program from the
.Dv PKG_DEFAULT_PATH
preprocessor macro is appended instead.
If
.Ev PKG_CONFIG_LIBDIR
is defined but empty, nothing is appended.
.It Ev PKG_CONFIG_LOG
.Sq logfile
which is used for dumping audit information concerning installed module versions.
.It Ev PKG_CONFIG_MSVC_SYNTAX
If set, uses MSVC syntax for fragments.
.It Ev PKG_CONFIG_PATH
A colon-separated list of high-priority directories where
.Xr pc 5
files are looked up.
The module search path is constructed
by prepending the directory specified with
.Fl -with-path ,
if any, and unless
.Fl -env-only
is specified, by appending either
.Ev PKG_CONFIG_LIBDIR
or the compiled-in default directories with lower priority.
.It Ev PKG_CONFIG_PURE_DEPGRAPH
If set, enables the same behaviour as the
.Fl -pure
flag.
.It Ev PKG_CONFIG_SYSROOT_DIR
.Sq sysroot
directory, will be prepended to every path defined in
.Ev PKG_CONFIG_PATH .
Useful for cross compilation.
.It Ev PKG_CONFIG_SYSTEM_INCLUDE_PATH
List of paths that are considered system include paths by the toolchain.
This is a pkgconf-specific extension.
.It Ev PKG_CONFIG_SYSTEM_LIBRARY_PATH
List of paths that are considered system library paths by the toolchain.
This is a pkgconf-specific extension.
.It Ev PKG_CONFIG_TOP_BUILD_DIR
Provides an alternative setting for the
.Sq pc_top_builddir
global variable.
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
.Sh EXAMPLES
Displaying the CFLAGS of a package:
.Dl $ pkg-config --cflags foo
.Dl -fPIC -I/usr/include/foo
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr pc 5 ,
.Xr pkg.m4 7
