.\"	$OpenBSD: vs.4,v 1.5 2011/09/03 23:27:08 jmc Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2003 Paul Weissmann
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: September 3 2011 $
.Dt VS 4 mvme68k
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm vs
.Nd MVME328, MVME328S and MVME328XT high performance SCSI controller
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Cd "vs* at vmes0 addr 0xffff9000 ipl 2 vec 0x80"
.Cd "vs* at vmes0 addr 0xffff9800 ipl 2 vec 0x82"
.Cd "vs* at vmes0 addr 0xffff4800 ipl 2 vec 0x84"
.Cd "vs* at vmes0 addr 0xffff5800 ipl 2 vec 0x86"
.Cd "vs* at vmes0 addr 0xffff7000 ipl 2 vec 0x88"
.Cd "vs* at vmes0 addr 0xffff7800 ipl 2 vec 0x8a"
.Cd "scsibus* at vs?"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
provides access to the Interphase 4210
.Sq Jaguar ,
4220 and 4220W
.Sq Cougar ,
also sold as the Motorola MVME328, MVME328S and MVME328XT
VME boards.
Depending on the version, these boards provide up to two
single-ended or differential, narrow or wide SCSI interfaces.
Dual-channel boards do not necessarily have channels of the same type.
On
.Sq Jaguar
boards, the
.Nm
driver cannot report whether a channel is single-ended or differential.
It is recommended to be very careful if the type of the channel is not
known with certitude.
.Ss MVME328 channel configuration
The following table lists the channel configuration for Motorola MVME328
boards.
.Bl -column "Model Number" "Single-ended" "Single-ended" -offset indent
.It Sy "Model Number" Ta Sy "Channel 0" Ta Sy "Channel 1"
.It Li MVME328-1 Ta Single-ended Ta Missing
.It Li MVME328-2 Ta Single-ended Ta Single-ended
.It Li MVME328-3 Ta Differential Ta Missing
.It Li MVME328-4 Ta Differential Ta Differential
.El
.Ss MVME328S channel configuration
The following table lists the channel configuration for Motorola MVME328S
boards.
.Bl -column "Model Number" "Single-ended" "Single-ended" -offset indent
.It Sy "Model Number" Ta Sy "Channel 0" Ta Sy "Channel 1"
.It Li MVME328S-1 Ta Single-ended Ta Missing
.It Li MVME328S-2 Ta Single-ended Ta Single-ended
.\" No -3 model
.It Li MVME328S-4 Ta Differential Ta Differential
.It Li MVME328S-5 Ta Differential Ta Single-ended
.El
.Sh HARDWARE CONFIGURATION
The card's base address
.Po
matching the
.Em addr
locator on the configuration line
.Pc
is defined through a set of jumpers on the card.
.Ss MVME328, MVME328S and Interphase 4210 jumper configuration
The card address is controlled with nine jumpers, labeled
.Dq JB1
on the board, near the fuse in a corner of the card.
They are contiguous to the
.Dq JA7
single jumper and
.Dq JA8
dual jumper, located immediately to the left of the
.Dq JB1
block.
.Pp
The only supported configurations are:
.Bl -column "xxxxxxxxx" "0xffffffff" "Configuration" -offset indent
.It Sy JB1 Ta Sy Address Ta Sy Configuration
.It Li "___X_XX__" Ta "0xffff9000" Ta "1st board"
.It Li "_____XX__" Ta "0xffff9800" Ta "2nd board"
.It Li "____XX_X_" Ta "0xffff4800" Ta "3rd board"
.It Li "_____X_X_" Ta "0xffff5800" Ta "4th board"
.It Li "___X___X_" Ta "0xffff7000" Ta "5th board"
.It Li "_______X_" Ta "0xffff7800" Ta "6th board"
.El
.Ss MVME328XT and Interphase 4220 and 4220W jumper configuration
The card address is controlled with two sets of eleven jumpers \(en
which label will depend on the card model and artwork revision.
These jumpers are located between the two VME P1 and P2 connectors.
With the card oriented so that the VME connectors are at the bottom,
the bottom row of eleven jumpers should have the leftmost jumper set
and the ten rightmost jumpers open.
.Pp
The only supported configurations for the top row are:
.Bl -column "xxxxxxxxxxx" "0xffffffff" "Configuration" -offset indent
.It Sy Jumpers Ta Sy Address Ta Sy Configuration
.It Li "___X_XX____" Ta "0xffff9000" Ta "1st board"
.It Li "_____XX____" Ta "0xffff9800" Ta "2nd board"
.It Li "____XX_X___" Ta "0xffff4800" Ta "3rd board"
.It Li "_____X_X___" Ta "0xffff5800" Ta "4th board"
.It Li "___X___X___" Ta "0xffff7000" Ta "5th board"
.It Li "_______X___" Ta "0xffff7800" Ta "6th board"
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr cd 4 ,
.Xr ch 4 ,
.Xr intro 4 ,
.Xr scsi 4 ,
.Xr sd 4 ,
.Xr st 4 ,
.Xr uk 4
.Sh BUGS
The daughterboard providing access to the second SCSI channel does not
work under
.Ox
if the first SCSI channel is empty.
