.\"	$OpenBSD: compat_sunos.8,v 1.12 2003/02/19 09:10:36 jmc Exp $
.\"	$NetBSD: compat_sunos.8,v 1.6 1995/06/11 23:05:17 pk Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1994 Theo de Raadt
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by Theo de Raadt.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the author nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd June 15, 1994
.Dt compat_sunos 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm compat_sunos
.Nd setup for running SunOS binaries under emulation
.Sh DESCRIPTION
OpenBSD/sparc and some of the OpenBSD/m68k architectures can run
SunOS executables.
Most executables will work.
.Pp
The SunOS compatibility feature is active
for kernels compiled with the
.Nm COMPAT_SUNOS
option enabled.
.Pp
Compatibility with SunOS version 5 and later, better known as Solaris,
is
.Em not
addressed by these instructions; please read the
.Xr compat_svr4 8
manual page instead.
.Pp
The exceptions include programs that use the SunOS kvm library,
and various system calls, ioctl()'s, or kernel semantics
that are difficult to emulate.
The number of reasons why a program might fail to work is (thankfully)
longer than the number of programs that fail to run.
.Pp
Static executables will normally run without any extra setup.
This procedure details the directories and files that must be
set up to allow dynamically linked executables to work.
.Pp
The files needed can be found on the SunOS machine.
The user is responsible for the legal issues of ensuring that they
have a right to use the required files on their machine.
On the
.Ox
machine, do the following:
.Pp
.Bl -enum -inset -offset 123 -compact
.It
.Li mkdir -p /emul/sunos/usr/lib /emul/sunos/usr/5lib
.fi
.Pp
.It
.Li cp SunOS:/usr/lib/lib*.so.*.* OpenBSD:/emul/sunos/usr/lib
.Pp
.It
.Li cp SunOS:/usr/5lib/lib*.so.*.* OpenBSD:/emul/sunos/usr/5lib
.Pp
.It
.Li cp SunOS:/usr/lib/ld.so OpenBSD:/emul/sunos/usr/lib/ld.so
.Pp
.It
If YP is going to be used, create a link:
.nf
.Li ln -s /var/run/ypbind.lock /etc/ypbind.lock
.fi
.El
.Pp
Alternatively, an NFS mount can accomplish the same
effect.
On the
.Ox
machine, do the following:
.Pp
.Bl -enum -inset -offset 123 -compact
.Pp
.It
.Li mkdir -p /emul/sunos/usr
.Pp
.It
.Li mount SunOS:/usr /emul/sunos/usr
.fi
.El
.Pp
This will place the SunOS libraries on the
.Ox
machine in a location where the SunOS compatibility code will look
first, in order to avoid conflict with the standard libraries.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr compat_svr4 8
.Sh BUGS
A list of things which fail to work in compatibility mode should
be here.
