.\"	$OpenBSD: rc.d.8,v 1.28 2015/02/25 23:01:28 rpe Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2011 Robert Nagy, Antoine Jacoutot, Ingo Schwarze
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHORS ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: February 25 2015 $
.Dt RC.D 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm rc.d
.Nd daemon control scripts
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm /etc/rc.d/ Ns Ar daemon
.Op Fl df
.Ar action
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Pa /etc/rc.d
directory contains shell scripts to start, stop, and reconfigure daemon
programs
.Pq Dq services .
.Pp
Services installed from
.Xr packages 7
may be started at boot time in the order specified by the
.Va pkg_scripts
variable from
.Xr rc.conf 8 ;
the order will be reversed during shutdown.
Services comprising
.Ox
base are started by
.Xr rc 8 .
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl d
Setting this option will print the function names as they are called
and prevent the
.Xr rc.subr 8
framework from redirecting stdin and stderr to /dev/null.
This is used to allow debugging of failed
.Ar actions .
.It Fl f
This option only affects the
.Cm start
action.
It will forcibly start the daemon whatever value
.Va daemon_flags
is set to.
If
.Va daemon_flags
is set to
.Dq NO ,
execution will continue with the script's own defaults unless other
flags are specified.
.El
.Pp
Each such script responds to the following
.Ar actions :
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width restart -offset indent -compact
.It Cm start
Start the service, if not already running.
.It Cm stop
Stop the service.
.It Cm reload
Tell the daemon to reload its configuration.
.It Cm restart
Perform a stop, then a start.
.It Cm check
Return 0 if the daemon is running or 1 if it is not.
.El
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
Daemon control scripts use a fixed number of
.Xr sh 1
variables when starting a daemon.
The following three can be overridden by site-specific values provided in
.Xr rc.conf.local 8 :
.Bl -tag -width daemon_timeout -offset indent
.It Ar daemon Ns _flags
Additional arguments to call the daemon with.
These will be appended to any mandatory arguments already contained in the
.Va daemon
variable defined in the control script.
If
.Ar daemon Ns _flags
is set to
.Dq NO ,
it will prevent the daemon from starting even when listed in
.Va pkg_scripts .
.It Ar daemon Ns _user
User to run the daemon as, using
.Xr su 1 .
.It Ar daemon Ns _timeout
Maximum time in seconds to wait for the
.Cm start
(only if
.Va rc_bg
is set),
.Cm stop
and
.Cm reload
actions to return.
This is only guaranteed with the default
.Ic rc_start ,
.Ic rc_stop
and
.Ic rc_reload
functions.
.El
.Pp
To obtain the actual variable names, replace
.Ar daemon
with the name of the script.
For example, postgres is managed through
.Pa /etc/rc.d/postgresql :
.Pp
.Dl daemon_flags=-w -l /var/postgresql/logfile
.Pp
To override this and increase the debug log level (keeping the existing
flags), define the following in
.Xr rc.conf.local 8 :
.Pp
.Dl postgresql_flags=-w -l /var/postgresql/logfile -d 5
.Pp
Each script may define its own defaults, as explained in
.Xr rc.subr 8 .
.Pp
.Va daemon_class
is a special read-only variable.
It is set to
.Dq daemon
unless there is a login class configured in
.Xr login.conf 5
with the same name as the
.Nm rc.d
script itself,
in which case it will be set to that login class.
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Pa /etc/rc.d/
Directory containing daemon control scripts.
.It Pa /etc/rc.d/rc.subr
Functions and variables used by
.Nm rc.d
scripts.
.It Pa /var/run/rc.d/
Directory containing files recording the
.Va pexp
variable used by
.Xr pkill 1
for currently running daemons.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr rc 8 ,
.Xr rc.conf 8 ,
.Xr rc.subr 8
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Pa /etc/rc.d
directory
first appeared in
.Ox 4.9 .
