.\"	$OpenBSD: rc.shutdown.8,v 1.4 2003/02/15 09:32:30 jmc Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1999 Aaron Campbell
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by Aaron Campbell.
.\" 4. The name of the author may not be used to endorse or promote products
.\"    derived from this software without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd July 20, 1999
.Dt RC.SHUTDOWN 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm /etc/rc.shutdown
.Nd command script run at system shutdown
.Sh DESCRIPTION
When the system is administratively shut down using either the
.Xr reboot 8
or
.Xr halt 8
command, either of these programs checks for the existence of a
.Pa /etc/rc.shutdown
script to run before halting the system.
It will also be executed by
.Xr init 8
if a keyboard-requested halt is issued (for architectures that support this).
.Pp
The
.Nm
script, like
.Xr rc.local 8 ,
is entirely for commands added by the system administrator.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr halt 8 ,
.Xr init 8 ,
.Xr rc 8 ,
.Xr reboot 8
