.\"	$OpenBSD: release.8,v 1.43 2005/09/22 14:20:15 jmc Exp $
.\"
.\"	Copyright (c) 2000 Marco S. Hyman
.\"
.\"	Permission to copy all or part of this material for any purpose is
.\"	granted provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph
.\"	are duplicated in all copies.  THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS''
.\"	AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT
.\"	LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS
.\"	FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\"
.Dd July 6, 2000
.Dt RELEASE 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm release
.Nd building an
.Ox
release
.Sh DESCRIPTION
There are several steps necessary to build a system release.
They are:
.Pp
.Bl -enum -compact -offset indent
.It
Update sources.
.It
Build and install a new kernel.
.It
Build a new system.
.It
Make and validate the system release.
.It
Build and install XF4.
.It
Make and validate the XF4 release.
.It
Make the third party packages.
.El
.Pp
The following sections describe each of the required steps in detail.
.Pp
Commands to be run as a user with write permissions on the source and
ports trees
.Pf ( Ns Pa /usr/src
and
.Pa /usr/ports
respectively)
are preceded by a dollar sign
.Pq Sq $ .
Commands that must be run as the superuser are preceded by a hash mark
.Pq Sq # .
.Ss 1. Update sources
A
.Nm
should always start from a known set of
.Em coherent
sources.
The easiest way to ensure that the sources are complete and coherent
is to check them out using the
.Tn CVS
tag the
.Ox
developers add to the repository prior to making a release.
There are two tags, one which identifies the release as it exists on the
.Tn CD-ROM
and another which identifies the
.Em stable
branch.
The
.Em stable
branch, starting with
.Ox 2.7 ,
contains the patches described in
.Pa http://www.openbsd.org/errata.html .
The tags are of the form:
.Bl -tag -width OPENBSD_x_y_BASE
.It Va OPENBSD_x_y_BASE
This tag marks the source as it exists on the release
.Tn CD-ROM
where
.Ar x
is the major release number and
.Ar y
is the minor release number.
.It Va OPENBSD_x_y
This tag is a moving target.
It marks the sources that belong to the stable branch.
This branch
.Em only
contains errata, no new features.
.El
.Pp
To update your sources to the versions identified by one of the above
tags use the commands:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ cd /usr/src && cvs up -r TAG -Pd
$ cd XF4SRC && cvs up -r TAG -Pd
$ cd PORTSPATH && cvs up -r TAG -Pd
.Ed
.Pp
Replace
.Va XF4SRC
with the path to your X Window System sources.
Replace
.Va PORTSPATH
with the path to your ports tree sources, typically
.Pa /usr/ports .
The above commands assume an existing source tree.
.Pp
See
.Pa http://www.openbsd.org/anoncvs.html
for instructions on fetching the sources for the first time.
.Pp
.Sy Warning :
.Tn CVS
tags are
.Sq sticky .
See
.Xr cvs 1
for more information.
.Ss 2. Build and install a new kernel
For safety, you should always build and install a new kernel before
building the programs that will use the kernel.
This ensures that any new system calls, for example, will be present
when needed.
To build a kernel the steps are:
.Pp
Change the current working directory.
.Va ${ARCH}
is the architecture of your machine, e.g.\&
.Li i386 .
.Pp
.Dl $ cd /sys/arch/${ARCH}/conf
.Pp
Edit the kernel configuration file.
.Va ${NAME}
is your kernel configuration file.
You should
.Em not
edit
.Li GENERIC ;
create your own kernel configuration if you need to make modifications.
If using
.Li GENERIC
you can skip this step.
And yes, you may use
.Xr vi 1 ,
.Xr mg 1 ,
or any other editor you choose.
.Pp
.Dl $ vi ${NAME}
.Pp
Build the kernel compilation directory and compile the kernel:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ config ${NAME}
$ cd ../compile/${NAME}
$ make clean depend && make
.Ed
.Pp
(In this instance
.Li "make clean"
is your friend.)
.Pp
Replace the old kernel and reboot:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ su
# mv /bsd /bsd.old && mv bsd / && chown root:wheel /bsd
# shutdown -r now
.Ed
.Pp
If the system does not come up you can boot using
.Pa bsd.old .
.Ss 3. Build a new system
Now that you are running using your new kernel you can build a new system.
It's safer (but slower) to remove your object directories and re-create
them before the build.
The steps are:
.Pp
Move all your existing object files out of the way and then remove
them in the background:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ cd /usr/obj && mkdir -p .old && sudo mv * .old && \e
	sudo rm -rf .old &
.Ed
.Pp
Re-build your obj directories:
.Pp
.Dl $ cd /usr/src && nice make obj
.Pp
Create directories that might be missing:
.Pp
.Dl $ cd /usr/src/etc && env DESTDIR=/ sudo make distrib-dirs
.Pp
Begin the build:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ su
# cd /usr/src && nice make build
.Ed
.Pp
If you have set
.Xr sudo 8
up, you can combine this with the previous step using the command
.Pp
.Dl $ nice make SUDO=sudo build
.Pp
Update
.Pa /etc ,
.Pa /var ,
and
.Pa /dev/MAKEDEV
by hand.
.Pp
At this point your system is up-to-date and running the code that you
are going to make into a release.
.Ss 4. Make and validate the system release
The system release consists of a generic kernel, one
.Tn CD-ROM
and two floppy bootable file systems, the release
.Sq tarballs ,
installation instructions, and checksum files.
.Pp
The release process requires two work areas.
They are:
.Bl -tag -width "RELEASEDIR "
.It Va DESTDIR
This is the name of a directory which will be the root of a complete
.Ox
installation, thus it must be on a disk partition large enough to store the
entire operating system (less the X Window System and any third party
.Sq packages ) .
The directory can be removed once the release is created.
In any case the release process ensures the directory is empty before starting.
.It Va RELEASEDIR
This is the name of a directory where the release output files are stored.
The following process will create the directory if necessary.
.It " "
.Sy Warning :
.Va DESTDIR
and
.Va RELEASEDIR
must not refer to any directory with
.Pa /mnt
in its path as
.Pa /mnt
is used in the release generation process.
.El
.Pp
The floppy and
.Tn CD-ROM
.Pa RAMDISK
images require a special tool which is created first.
The release process is:
.Pp
You must be root to create a release:
.Pp
.Dl $ su
.Pp
Create the special tools needed to build the release:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
# cd /usr/src/distrib/crunch && make obj depend \e
	&& make all install
# export DESTDIR=your-destdir; export RELEASEDIR=your-releasedir
# test -d ${DESTDIR} && mv ${DESTDIR} ${DESTDIR}- && \e
	rm -rf ${DESTDIR}- &
# mkdir -p ${DESTDIR} ${RELEASEDIR}
.Ed
.Pp
The last two steps ensure
.Va ${DESTDIR}
exists as an empty directory and
.Va ${RELEASEDIR}
exists.
.Va ${RELEASEDIR}
need not be empty.
.Pp
Check that the contents of
.Va ${DESTDIR}
pretty much match the contents of the release
.Sq tarballs :
.Bd -literal -offset indent
# cd /usr/src/etc && nice make release
# cd /usr/src/distrib/sets && sh checkflist
# unset RELEASEDIR DESTDIR
.Ed
.Pp
At this point you have most of an
.Ox
release.
The only thing missing is the X Window System
(which is covered in the next section).
.Ss 5. Build and install XF4
The
.Va XF4
tree is primarily
.Xr imake 1 Ns -based
and doesn't contain the
.Dq obj
directory mechanism that comes with Berkeley
.Xr make 1 .
While the tree can be built in place, it's better to refrain from
polluting the cvs sources.
An alternate build location needs to be selected, large enough to hold the
X Window System object files, libraries, and binaries.
Call this location
.Va XF4BLD .
.Va XF4SRC
is the path to your X Window System source files.
Once you've selected
.Va XF4BLD
the build process is:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ su
# test -d XF4BLD && mv XF4BLD XF4BLD- && rm -rf XF4BLD- &
# mkdir -p XF4BLD
# cd XF4BLD && lndir XF4SRC && nice make build
.Ed
.Pp
.Sy Note (only for i386) :
.Pa XF86Setup ,
built and installed above, requires version 8.4 of the
.Pa tcl/tk
libraries.
They must be installed to do a proper build.
Version 8.4 of
.Pa tcl/tk
can be found in the ports tree at
.Pa /usr/ports/lang/tcl/8.4/
and
.Pa /usr/ports/x11/tk/8.4/ .
Version 8.4 is required to build XF4.
Version 8.4 may coexist with version 8.0.
.Pp
The above method mimics a
.Ic "make build"
in the
.Pa /usr/src
directory.
The X Window System is created and installed in
.Pa /usr/X11R6 .
However, the install phase of the build does
.Em not
overwrite
.Pa /etc/X11/xdm .
That directory must be installed by hand.
Or you can
.Ic "cd /etc/X11 && mv xdm xdm-"
before the build and copy any local configuration from
.Pa xdm-
to
.Pa xdm
after the build.
.Ss 6. Make and validate the XF4 release
.Va XF4
uses
.Va DESTDIR
and
.Va RELEASEDIR
as described above.
While they may be set to the values used to build the rest of the
system, be aware that the existing contents of
.Va DESTDIR
will be removed as part of the XF4 build (this is necessary for
release checklist processing).
.Pp
The steps to build the release are (assuming you are still root, and still in
.Va XF4BLD ) :
.Bd -literal -offset indent
# export DESTDIR=your-destdir; export RELEASEDIR=your-releasedir
# test -d ${DESTDIR} && mv ${DESTDIR} ${DESTDIR}- && \e
	rm -rf ${DESTDIR}- &
# mkdir -p ${DESTDIR} ${RELEASEDIR}
# nice make release
# unset RELEASEDIR DESTDIR
.Ed
.Pp
At this point you have both
.Ox
system and X Window System
.Sq tarballs
in your release directory.
.Ss 7. Make the third party packages
The
.Sq ports
sub-system of contributed applications is described in
.Xr ports 7 .
For ease of installation ports can be pre-compiled into
.Sq packages
which can then be installed on multiple machines using
.Xr pkg_add 1 .
Packages are created by selecting an application to build
(we'll call this one CATEGORY/PORT) and then running the following:
as root:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ cd /usr/ports/CATEGORY/PORT
$ su
# make package
.Ed
.Pp
That's all there is to it.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr cvs 1 ,
.Xr pkg_add 1 ,
.Xr ports 7 ,
.Xr sudo 8
.Sh HISTORY
This document first appeared in
.Ox 2.8 .
