.\" $OpenBSD: security.8,v 1.8 2004/10/04 20:44:20 jmc Exp $
.\"
.\" David Leonard, 2001. Public Domain.
.\"
.Dd July 1, 2000
.Dt SECURITY 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm security
.Nd periodic system security check
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm /etc/security
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a command script that examines the system for some signs of security
weaknesses.
It is only a security aid and does not offer complete protection.
The
.Nm
script is normally run from the
.Pa /etc/daily
script (see
.Xr daily 8
for further details), which sends mails to root on a daily basis.
.Pp
The
.Nm
script carries out the following list of simple checks:
.Bl -bullet
.It
Check the master
.Xr passwd 5
and
.Xr group 5
files for
syntax, empty passwords, partially closed accounts,
suspicious UIDs, suspicious GIDs, and duplicate entries.
.It
Check root's home directory and login environment for
insecure permissions, suspicious paths, and umask commands in the
dotfiles.
.It
Check that root and uucp are in
.Pa /etc/ftpusers .
.It
Check for suspicious commands in
.Pa /etc/mail/aliases .
.It
Check for insecurities in various trust files such as
.Pa /etc/hosts.equiv , /etc/shosts.equiv ,
and
.Pa /etc/hosts.lpd .
.It
Check user
.Pa .rhosts
and
.Pa .shosts
files for open access.
.It
Check user home directory permissions.
.It
Check many user dotfile permissions.
.It
Check user mailbox permissions.
.It
Check NFS
.Xr exports 5
file for global export entries.
.It
Check for changes in setuid/setgid files and devices.
.It
Check disk ownership and permissions.
.It
Check for changes in the device file list.
.It
Check for permission changes in special files and system binaries listed in
.Pa /etc/mtree/special
and
.Pa "/etc/mtree/*.secure" .
.Sy Note:
This is not complete protection against Trojan horsed binaries, as
the miscreant can modify the tree specification to match the replaced binary.
For details on really protecting yourself against modified binaries, see
.Xr mtree 8 .
.It
Check for content changes in those files specified by
.Pa /etc/changelist .
See
.Xr changelist 5
for further details.
.It
Check for changes to the disklabels of mounted disks.
.El
.Pp
The intent of the
.Nm
script is to point out some obvious holes to the system administrator.
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width /dev/changelist -compact
.It Pa /etc/changelist
.It Pa /etc/daily
.It Pa /etc/mtree
.It Pa /var/backups
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr changelist 5 ,
.Xr daily 8 ,
.Xr mtree 8
.Sh BUGS
The name of this script may provide a false sense of
.Nm security .
.\" Well, I thought it was amusing.
.Pp
There are perhaps an infinite number of ways the system can be compromised
without this script noticing.
