.\"	$OpenBSD: yp.8,v 1.23 2007/05/31 19:19:59 jmc Exp $
.\"	$NetBSD: yp.8,v 1.9 1995/08/11 01:16:52 thorpej Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, 1993, 1996 Theo de Raadt <deraadt@theos.com>
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY
.\" DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: May 31 2007 $
.Dt YP 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm yp
.Nd description of the YP subsystem
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm ypinit
.Op Fl m
.Ar domain
.Nm ypinit
.Op Fl s
.Ar server
.Ar domain
.Pp
.Nm ypbind
.Op Fl ypset
.Nm ypbind
.Op Fl ypsetme
.Pp
.Nm ypset
.Op Fl h Ar host
.Op Fl d Ar domain
.Ar server
.Pp
.Nm yppoll
.Op Fl h Ar host
.Op Fl d Ar domain
.Ar mapname
.Pp
.Nm ypcat
.Op Fl kt
.Op Fl d Ar domainname
.Ar mapname
.Nm ypcat
.Fl x
.Pp
.Nm ypmatch
.Op Fl kt
.Op Fl d Ar domainname
.Ar key ... mapname
.Nm ypmatch
.Fl x
.Pp
.Nm ypwhich
.Op Fl d Ar domain
.Oo
.Op Fl t
.Fl m Op Ar mname
|
.Ar host
.Oc
.Nm ypwhich
.Fl x
.Pp
.Nm ypserv
.Op Fl a Ar aclfile
.Op Fl d
.Op Fl x
.Pp
.Nm ypxfr
.Op Fl bcf
.Op Fl d Ar domain
.Op Fl h Ar host
.Op Fl s Ar domain
.Op Fl C Ar tid prog ipadd port
.Ar mapname
.Pp
.Nm yppush
.Op Fl d Ar domainname
.Op Fl h Ar hostname
.\" .Op Fl p Ar paralleljobs
.\" .Op Fl t Ar timeout
.Op Fl v
.Ar mapname
.Pp
.Nm rpc.yppasswdd
.Bk -words
.Op Fl d Ar directory
.Op Fl noshell
.Op Fl nogecos
.Op Fl nopw
.Op Fl m Ar arg1 Ar arg2 Ar ...
.Ek
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm YP
subsystem allows network management of passwd, group, and
hosts file entries through the functions
.Xr getpwent 3 ,
.Xr getgrent 3
and
.Xr gethostbyname 3 .
A number of other databases can be network-managed as well,
and have their respective functions.
.Nm YP
also provides hooks for numerous other client programs
such as
.Xr amd 8
and
.Xr bootparamd 8
to access distributed and shareable versions
of their maps through
.Nm YP .
.Pp
.Nm ypinit
is used to initialize
.Nm YP
as a master or a slave.
This creates various files in
.Pa /var/yp .
By default the
.Nm YP
server will be set up in backwards compatible mode.
To enable
.Dq secure
mode, the file
.Pa /var/yp/Makefile.yp
must be edited.
This
.Dq secure
mode is compatible with
.Ox
and
.Fx
clients.
.Pp
If set up as a slave, the required databases are automatically copied
from the specified server.
.Pp
The
.Nm YP
client subsystem is started automatically in
.Pa /etc/rc
if the directory
.Pa /var/yp/binding
exists.
The client subsystem can be turned on and off by creating or
deleting that directory.
.Xr ypbind 8
will create that directory if run by hand.
.Pp
The
.Nm YP
server subsystem is started automatically in
.Pa /etc/rc
if the directory
.Pa /var/yp/DOMAINNAME
exists.
This directory is automatically created by
.Xr ypinit 8
(which initializes the machine as a
.Nm YP
server).
The YP server also requires that
.Xr portmap 8
be running before it is started.
.Pp
If
.Nm ypbind
cannot find a server, the system behaves the same way as Sun's code
does: it hangs.
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width /var/yp/Makefile.main -compact
.It Pa /var/yp/Makefile.main
Top level YP Makefile
.It Pa /var/yp/Makefile.yp
YP maps Makefile
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr domainname 1 ,
.Xr ypcat 1 ,
.Xr ypmatch 1 ,
.Xr ypwhich 1 ,
.Xr ypclnt 3 ,
.Xr defaultdomain 5 ,
.Xr group 5 ,
.Xr passwd 5 ,
.Xr resolv.conf 5 ,
.Xr rpc.yppasswdd 8 ,
.Xr ypbind 8 ,
.Xr ypinit 8 ,
.Xr yppoll 8 ,
.Xr yppush 8 ,
.Xr ypserv 8 ,
.Xr ypset 8 ,
.Xr ypxfr 8
.Sh HISTORY
This free
.Nm YP
subsystem is thought to be compatible with Sun's implementation.
It is, of course, not compatible with
.Nm NIS+
or any other
.Dq secure
.Nm YP
subsystem other than the native one.
.Pp
The name
.Nm YP
stands for Yellow Pee.
.Pp
The ypbind, most library components, and userland programs were implemented
by
.An Theo de Raadt Aq deraadt@theos.com .
The current
.Xr getpwent 3
implementation was done by
.An Jason Downs Aq downsj@downsj.com .
The server component was implemented by
.An Mats O Jansson Aq moj@stacken.kth.se .
