.\"	$OpenBSD: audio.9,v 1.17 2007/05/31 19:20:00 jmc Exp $
.\"	$NetBSD: audio.9,v 1.14 2000/02/11 22:56:15 kleink Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1999, 2000 The NetBSD Foundation, Inc.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to The NetBSD Foundation
.\" by Lennart Augustsson.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"        This product includes software developed by the NetBSD
.\"        Foundation, Inc. and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of The NetBSD Foundation nor the names of its
.\"    contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived
.\"    from this software without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE NETBSD FOUNDATION, INC. AND CONTRIBUTORS
.\" ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED
.\" TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
.\" PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE FOUNDATION OR CONTRIBUTORS
.\" BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
.\" INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
.\" CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
.\" POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: May 31 2007 $
.Dt AUDIO 9
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm audio
.Nd interface between low and high level audio drivers
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The audio device driver is divided into a high level,
hardware independent layer, and a low level, hardware
dependent layer.
The interface between these is the
.Va audio_hw_if
structure.
.Bd -literal
struct audio_hw_if {
	int	(*open)(void *, int);
	void	(*close)(void *);
	int	(*drain)(void *);

	int	(*query_encoding)(void *, struct audio_encoding *);
	int	(*set_params)(void *, int, int,
		    struct audio_params *, struct audio_params *);
	int	(*round_blocksize)(void *, int);

	int	(*commit_settings)(void *);

	int	(*init_output)(void *, void *, int);
	int	(*init_input)(void *, void *, int);
	int	(*start_output)(void *, void *, int,
		    void (*)(void *), void *);
	int	(*start_input)(void *, void *, int,
		    void (*)(void *), void *);
	int	(*halt_output)(void *);
	int	(*halt_input)(void *);

	int	(*speaker_ctl)(void *, int);
#define SPKR_ON  1
#define SPKR_OFF 0

	int	(*getdev)(void *, struct audio_device *);
	int	(*setfd)(void *, int);

	int	(*set_port)(void *, struct mixer_ctrl *);
	int	(*get_port)(void *, struct mixer_ctrl *);

	int	(*query_devinfo)(void *, struct mixer_devinfo *);

	void	*(*allocm)(void *, int, size_t, int, int);
	void	(*freem)(void *, void *, int);
	size_t	(*round_buffersize)(void *, int, size_t);
	paddr_t	(*mappage)(void *, void *, off_t, int);

	int 	(*get_props)(void *);

	int	(*trigger_output)(void *, void *, void *, int,
		    void (*)(void *), void *, struct audio_params *);
	int	(*trigger_input)(void *, void *, void *, int,
		    void (*)(void *), void *, struct audio_params *);
};

struct audio_params {
	u_long	sample_rate;		/* sample rate */
	u_int	encoding;		/* mu-law, linear, etc */
	u_int	precision;		/* bits/sample */
	u_int	channels;		/* mono(1), stereo(2) */
	/* Software en/decode functions, set if SW coding required by HW */
	void	(*sw_code)(void *, u_char *, int);
	int	factor;			/* coding space change */
};
.Ed
.Pp
The high level audio driver attaches to the low level driver
when the latter calls
.Fn audio_attach_mi .
This call is:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
struct device *
audio_attach_mi(struct audio_hw_if *ahwp, void *hdl,
		struct device *dev);
.Ed
.Pp
The
.Va audio_hw_if
struct is as shown above.
The
.Fa hdl
argument is a handle to some low level data structure.
It is sent as the first argument to all the functions in
.Fa ahwp
when the high level driver calls them.
.Fa dev
is the device struct for the hardware device.
.Pp
The upper layer of the audio driver allocates one buffer for playing
and one for recording.
It handles the buffering of data from the user processes in these.
The data is presented to the lower level in smaller chunks, called blocks.
During playback, if there is no data available from the user process
when the hardware requests another block, a block of silence will be
used instead.
Similarly, if the user process does not read data quickly enough during
recording, data will be thrown away.
.Pp
The fields of
.Va audio_hw_if
are described in some more detail below.
Some fields are optional and can be set to
.Dv NULL
if not needed.
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fn "int (*open)" "void *hdl" "int flags"
This function is called when the audio device is opened, with
.Fa flags
the kernel representation of flags passed to the
.Xr open 2
system call
.Po
see
.Dv OFLAGS
and
.Dv FFLAGS
in
.Aq Pa sys/fcntl.h
.Pc .
It initializes the hardware for I/O.
Every successful call to
.Fn open
is matched by a call to
.Fn close .
This function returns 0 on success, otherwise an error code.
.It Fn "void (*close)" "void *hdl"
This function is called when the audio device is closed.
.It Fn "int (*drain)" "void *hdl"
This function is optional.
If supplied, it is called before the device is closed or when the
.Dv AUDIO_DRAIN
.Xr ioctl 2
is called.
It makes sure that no samples remain to be played that could
be lost when
.Fn close
is called.
This function returns 0 on success, otherwise an error code.
.It Fn "int (*query_encoding)" "void *hdl" "struct audio_encoding *ae"
This function is used when the
.Dv AUDIO_GETENC
.Xr ioctl 2
is called.
It fills
.Fa ae
and returns 0 or, if there is no encoding with the given number, returns
.Er EINVAL .
.It Fn "int (*set_params)" "void *hdl" "int setmode" "int usemode" \
"struct audio_params *play" "struct audio_params *rec"
This function is called to set the audio encoding mode.
.Fa setmode
is a combination of the
.Dv AUMODE_RECORD
and
.Dv AUMODE_PLAY
flags to indicate which mode(s) are to be set.
.Fa usemode
is also a combination of these flags, but indicates the current
mode of the device (i.e., the value of
.Va mode
in the
.Va audio_info
struct).
The
.Fa play
and
.Fa rec
structures contain the encoding parameters that will be set.
If the hardware requires software assistance with some encoding
(e.g., it might be lacking mu-law support), it will fill the
.Va sw_code
and
.Va factor
fields of these structures.
See
.Pa /usr/src/sys/dev/auconv.h
for available software support.
The values of the structures may also be modified if the hardware
cannot be set to exactly the requested mode (e.g., if the requested
sampling rate is not supported, but one close enough is).
If the device does not have the
.Dv AUDIO_PROP_INDEPENDENT
property, the same value is passed in both
.Fa play
and
.Fa rec
and the encoding parameters from
.Fa play
are copied into
.Fa rec
after the call to
.Fn set_params .
.Pp
The machine independent audio driver does some preliminary parameter checking;
it verifies that the precision is compatible with the encoding,
and it translates
.Dv AUDIO_ENCODING_[US]LINEAR
to
.Dv AUDIO_ENCODING_[US]LINEAR_{LE,BE} .
.Pp
This function returns 0 on success, otherwise an error code.
.It Fn "int (*round_blocksize)" "void *hdl" "int bs"
This function is optional.
If supplied, it is called with the block size,
.Fa bs ,
which has been computed by the upper layer.
It returns a block size, possibly changed according to the needs of the
hardware driver.
.It Fn "int (*commit_settings)" "void *hdl"
This function is optional.
If supplied, it is called after all calls to
.Fn set_params
and
.Fn set_port
are done.
A hardware driver that needs to get the hardware in
and out of command mode for each change can save all the changes
during previous calls and do them all here.
This function returns 0 on success, otherwise an error code.
.It Fn "int (*init_output)" "void *hdl" "void *buffer" "int size"
This function is optional.
If supplied, it is called before any output starts, but only after the total
.Fa size
of the output
.Fa buffer
has been determined.
It can be used to initialize looping DMA for hardware that needs it.
This function returns 0 on success, otherwise an error code.
.It Fn "int (*init_input)" "void *hdl" "void *buffer" "int size"
This function is optional.
If supplied, it is called before any input starts, but only after the total
.Fa size
of the input
.Fa buffer
has been determined.
It can be used to initialize looping DMA for hardware that needs it.
This function returns 0 on success, otherwise an error code.
.It Fn "int (*start_output)" "void *hdl" "void *block" "int bsize" \
"void (*intr)(void *)" "void *intrarg"
This function is called to start the transfer of
.Fa bsize
bytes from
.Fa block
to the audio hardware.
The call returns when the data transfer
has been initiated (normally with DMA).
When the hardware is ready to accept more samples the function
.Fa intr
will be called with the argument
.Fa intrarg .
Calling
.Fa intr
will normally initiate another call to
.Fn start_output .
This function returns 0 on success, otherwise an error code.
.It Fn "int (*start_input)" "void *hdl" "void *block" "int bsize" \
"void (*intr)(void *)" "void *intrarg"
This function is called to start the transfer of
.Fa bsize
bytes to
.Fa block
from the audio hardware.
The call returns when the data transfer
has been initiated (normally with DMA).
When the hardware is ready to deliver more samples the function
.Fa intr
will be called with the argument
.Fa intrarg .
Calling
.Fa intr
will normally initiate another call to
.Fn start_input .
This function returns 0 on success, otherwise an error code.
.It Fn "int (*halt_output)" "void *hdl"
This function is called to abort the output transfer (started by
.Fn start_output )
in progress.
This function returns 0 on success, otherwise an error code.
.It Fn "int (*halt_input)" "void *hdl"
This function is called to abort the input transfer (started by
.Fn start_input )
in progress.
This function returns 0 on success, otherwise an error code.
.It Fn "int (*speaker_ctl)" "void *hdl" "int on"
This function is optional.
If supplied, it is called when a half duplex device changes between
playing and recording.
It can, e.g., be used to turn the speaker on and off.
This function returns 0 on success, otherwise an error code.
.It Fn "int (*getdev)" "void *hdl" "struct audio_device *ret"
This function fills
.Fa ret
with relevant information about the driver and returns 0 on success,
or it returns an error code on failure.
.It Fn "int (*setfd)" "void *hdl" "int fd"
This function is optional.
If supplied, it is called when the
.Dv AUDIO_SETFD
.Xr ioctl 2
is used, but only if the device has
.Dv AUDIO_PROP_FULLDUPLEX
set.
This function returns 0 on success, otherwise an error code.
.It Fn "int (*set_port)" "void *hdl" "struct mixer_ctrl *mc"
This function is called when the
.Dv AUDIO_MIXER_WRITE
.Xr ioctl 2
is used.
It takes data from
.Fa mc
and sets the corresponding mixer values.
This function returns 0 on success, otherwise an error code.
.It Fn "int (*get_port)" "void *hdl" "struct mixer_ctrl *mc"
This function is called when the
.Dv AUDIO_MIXER_READ
.Xr ioctl 2
is used.
It fills
.Fa mc
and returns 0 on success, or it returns an error code on failure.
.It Fn "int (*query_devinfo)" "void *hdl" "struct mixer_devinfo *di"
This function is called when the
.Dv AUDIO_MIXER_DEVINFO
.Xr ioctl 2
is used.
It fills
.Fa di
and returns 0 on success, or it returns an error code on failure.
.It Fn "void *(*allocm)" "void *hdl" "int direction" "size_t size" "int type" \
"int flags"
This function is optional.
If supplied, it is called to allocate the device buffers.
If not supplied,
.Xr malloc 9
is used instead (with the same arguments but the first two).
The reason for using a device dependent routine instead of
.Xr malloc 9
is that some buses need special allocation to do DMA.
.Fa direction
is
.Dv AUMODE_PLAY
or
.Dv AUMODE_RECORD .
This function returns the address of the buffer on success, or 0 on failure.
.It Fn "void (*freem)" "void *hdl" "void *addr" "int type"
This function is optional.
If supplied, it is called to free memory allocated by
.Fn allocm .
If not supplied,
.Xr free 9
is used instead.
.\" XXX: code passes int instead of size_t, but decl is size_t
.It Fn "size_t (*round_buffersize)" "void *hdl" "int direction" \
"size_t bufsize"
This function is optional.
If supplied, it is called at startup to determine the audio buffer size.
The upper layer supplies the suggested size in
.Fa bufsize ,
which the hardware driver can then change if needed.
E.g., DMA on the ISA bus cannot exceed 65536 bytes.
Note that the buffer size is always a multiple of the block size, so
.Fn round_blocksize
and
.Fn round_buffersize
must be consistent.
.It Fn "paddr_t (*mappage)" "void *hdl" "void *addr" "off_t offs" "int prot"
This function is optional.
If supplied, it is called for
.Xr mmap 2 .
It returns the map value for the page at offset
.Fa offs
from address
.Fa addr
mapped with protection
.Fa prot .
This function returns \-1 on failure, or a machine dependent opaque
value on success.
.It Fn "int (*get_props)" "void *hdl"
This function returns the device properties, as per
.Xr audio 4
.Dv AUDIO_GETPROPS
.Xr ioctl 2 ,
i.e., a combination of
.Dv AUDIO_PROP_xxx
properties.
.It Fn "int (*trigger_output)" "void *hdl" "void *start" "void *end" "int blksize" \
"void (*intr)(void *)" "void *intrarg" "struct audio_params *param"
This function is optional.
If supplied, it is called to start the transfer of data from the circular
buffer delimited by
.Fa start
and
.Fa end
to the audio hardware, parameterized as in
.Fa param .
The call returns when the data transfer
has been initiated (normally with DMA).
When the hardware is finished transferring each
.Fa blksize
sized block, the function
.Fa intr
will be called with the argument
.Fa intrarg
(typically from the audio hardware interrupt service routine).
Once started, the transfer may be stopped using
.Fn halt_output .
This function returns 0 on success, otherwise an error code.
.It Fn "int (*trigger_input)" "void *hdl" "void *start" "void *end" "int blksize" \
"void (*intr)(void *)" "void *intrarg" "struct audio_params *param"
This function is optional.
If supplied, it is called to start the transfer of data from the audio
hardware, parameterized as in
.Fa param ,
to the circular buffer delimited by
.Fa start
and
.Fa end .
The call returns when the data transfer
has been initiated (normally with DMA).
When the hardware is finished transferring each
.Fa blksize
sized block, the function
.Fa intr
will be called with the argument
.Fa intrarg
(typically from the audio hardware interrupt service routine).
Once started, the transfer may be stopped using
.Fn halt_input .
This function returns 0 on success, otherwise an error code.
.El
.Pp
The
.Fn query_devinfo
method should define certain mixer controls for
.Dv AUDIO_SETINFO
to be able to change the port and gain.
.Pp
If the audio hardware is capable of input from more
than one source it should define
.Dv AudioNsource
in class
.Dv AudioCrecord .
This mixer control should be of type
.Dv AUDIO_MIXER_ENUM
or
.Dv AUDIO_MIXER_SET
and enumerate the possible input sources.
For each of the named sources there should be
a control in the
.Dv AudioCinputs
class of type
.Dv AUDIO_MIXER_VALUE
if recording level of the source can be set.
If the overall recording level can be changed (i.e., regardless
of the input source) then this control should be named
.Dv AudioNrecord
and be of class
.Dv AudioCinputs .
.Pp
If the audio hardware is capable of output to more than
one destination it should define
.Dv AudioNoutput
in class
.Dv AudioCmonitor .
This mixer control should be of type
.Dv AUDIO_MIXER_ENUM
or
.Dv AUDIO_MIXER_SET
and enumerate the possible destinations.
For each of the named destinations there should be
a control in the
.Dv AudioCoutputs
class of type
.Dv AUDIO_MIXER_VALUE
if output level of the destination can be set.
If the overall output level can be changed (i.e., regardless
of the destination) then this control should be named
.Dv AudioNmaster
and be of class
.Dv AudioCoutputs .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr ioctl 2 ,
.Xr mmap 2 ,
.Xr open 2 ,
.Xr audio 4 ,
.Xr free 9 ,
.Xr malloc 9
.Sh HISTORY
This
.Nm
interface first appeared in
.Ox 1.2 .
