.\"	$OpenBSD: counters_alloc.9,v 1.1 2016/10/21 10:15:40 dlg Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2016 David Gwynne <dlg@openbsd.org>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: October 21 2016 $
.Dt COUNTERS_ALLOC 9
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm counters_alloc ,
.Nm counters_free ,
.Nm counters_enter ,
.Nm counters_leave ,
.Nm counters_read ,
.Nm counters_zero ,
.Nm cpumem_next
.Nd per CPU counters
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In sys/percpu.h
.Ft struct cpumem *
.Fn counters_alloc "unsigned int ncounters" "int type"
.Ft void
.Fn counters_free "struct cpumem *cm" "unsigned int ncounters" "int type"
.Ft uint64_t *
.Fn counters_enter "struct counters_ref *ref" "struct cpumem *cm"
.Ft void
.Fn counters_leave "struct counters_ref *ref" "struct cpumem *cm"
.Ft void
.Fo counters_read
.Fa "struct cpumem *cm"
.Fa "uint64_t *counters"
.Fa "unsigned int ncounters"
.Fc
.Ft void
.Fn counters_zero "struct cpumem *cm" "unsigned int ncounters"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The per CPU counter API builds on the per CPU memory API and provides
access to a series of uint64_t counter values on each CPU.
.Pp
The API provides versioning of counter updates without using
interlocked CPU instructions so they can all be read in a consistent
state.
Updates to counters should be limited to addition or subtraction
of uint64_t values.
.Pp
An alternate implemention of the API is provided on uni-processor
(i.e., when the kernel is not built with
.Dv MULTIPROCESSOR
defined)
systems that provides no overhead compared to direct access to a
data structure.
This allows the API to be used without affecting the performance
uni-processor systems.
.Pp
.Fn counters_alloc
allocates memory for a series of uint64_t values on each CPU.
.Fa ncounters
specifies the number of counters to be allocated.
The
.Fa type
argument specifies the type of memory that the counters will be
allocated as via
.Xr malloc 9 .
The counters will be zeroed on allocation.
.Pp
.Fn counters_free
deallocates each CPU's counters.
The same
.Fa ncounters
and
.Fa type
arguments type originally provided to
.Fn counters_alloc
must be passed to
.Fn counters_free .
.Pp
.Fn counters_enter
provides access to the current CPU's set of counters referenced by
.Fa cm .
The callers reference to the counters is held by
.Fa ref .
.Pp
.Fn counters_leave
indicates the end of access to the current CPU's set ouf counters referenced by
.Fa cm .
The reference held by
.Fa ref
is released by this call.
.Pp
.Fn counters_read
iterates over each CPU's set of counters referenced by
.Fa cm ,
takes a consistent snapshot of the counters, and then sums them together.
The sum of the counters is written to the
.Fa counters
array.
The number of counters is specified with
.Fa ncounters .
.Pp
.Fn counters_zero
iterates over each CPU's set of counters refereced by
.Fa
and zeroes them.
The number of counters is specified with
.Fa ncounters .
.Fn counters_zero
itself does not prevent concurrent updates of the counters, it is
up to the caller to serialise this call with other actions.
.Sh CONTEXT
.Fn counters_alloc ,
.Fn counters_free ,
and
.Fn counters_read
may be called during autoconf, or from process context.
.Pp
.Fn counters_enter ,
.Fn counters_leave ,
and
.Fn counters_zero
may be called during autoconf, from process context, or from interrupt
context.
The per CPU counters API does not provide any locking or serialisation
of access to each CPU's set of counters beyond isolating each CPU's
update.
It is up to the caller to provide appropriate locking or serialisation
around calls to these functions to prevent concurrent access to the
relevant data structures.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
.Fn counters_get
will return an opaque cpumem pointer that references each CPU's
set of counters.
.Pp
.Fn counters_enter
returns a reference to the current CPU's set of counters.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr counters_get 9 ,
.Xr malloc 9
.Sh HISTORY
The per CPU counter API first appeared in
.Ox 6.1 .
.Sh AUTHORS
The per CPU counter API was written by
.An David Gwynne Aq Mt dlg@openbsd.org .
