.\" $OpenBSD: mutex.9,v 1.23 2016/06/19 11:54:33 natano Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2005 Pedro Martelletto <pedro@ambientworks.net>
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: June 19 2016 $
.Dt MUTEX 9
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm mutex ,
.Nm mtx_init ,
.Nm mtx_enter ,
.Nm mtx_enter_try ,
.Nm mtx_leave ,
.Nm MUTEX_ASSERT_LOCKED ,
.Nm MUTEX_ASSERT_UNLOCKED ,
.Nm MUTEX_INITIALIZER
.Nd interface to CPU mutexes
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In sys/mutex.h
.Ft void
.Fn mtx_init "struct mutex *mtxp" "int wantipl"
.Ft void
.Fn mtx_enter "struct mutex *mtxp"
.Ft int
.Fn mtx_enter_try "struct mutex *mtxp"
.Ft void
.Fn mtx_leave "struct mutex *mtxp"
.Fn MUTEX_ASSERT_LOCKED "struct mutex *mtxp"
.Fn MUTEX_ASSERT_UNLOCKED "struct mutex *mtxp"
.Fn MUTEX_INITIALIZER "int wantipl"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
set of functions provides a non-recursive, interrupt-aware spinning mechanism
to ensure mutual exclusion between different CPUs.
.Pp
The
.Fn mtx_init
function is used to initiate the mutex pointed to by
.Fa mtxp .
When acquired, the mutex will cause the processor interrupt level to be raised
to
.Fa wantipl
if necessary.
.Pp
The
.Fn mtx_enter
function acquires a mutex, spinning if necessary.
.Pp
The
.Fn mtx_enter_try
function attempts to acquire a mutex.
.Pp
The
.Fn mtx_leave
function releases a mutex.
In case the acquisition of the mutex caused the interrupt level to be changed,
it is then restored.
.Pp
The
.Fn MUTEX_ASSERT_LOCKED
and
.Fn MUTEX_ASSERT_UNLOCKED
macros may be used to assert that a mutex is held locked or unlocked by
the current CPU.
.Pp
A mutex declaration may be initialised with the
.Fn MUTEX_INITIALIZER
macro.
When acquired, the mutex will cause the processor interrupt level to be raised
to
.Fa wantipl
if necessary.
.Sh CONTEXT
.Fn mtx_init
can be called during autoconf, from process context, or from interrupt
context.
.Pp
.Fn mtx_enter ,
.Fn mtx_enter_try ,
and
.Fn mtx_leave
can be called during autoconf, from process context, or from any
interrupt context at or below the interrupt level
.Fa mtxp
was initialised with.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
The
.Fn mtx_enter_try
function will return non-zero if it succeeds in acquiring the mutex
.Fa mtxp ,
otherwise it will return 0.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr msleep 9 ,
.Xr rwlock 9 ,
.Xr spl 9
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
functions first appeared in
.Ox 3.6 .
.Sh AUTHORS
The
.Nm
functions were written by
.An Artur Grabowski Aq Mt art@openbsd.org .
.Sh CAVEATS
As these are spinning locks, don't sleep while holding one.
.Pp
Multiple mutexes may be nested, but not interleaved.
This is okay:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
mtx_enter(foo);
mtx_enter(bar);
mtx_leave(bar);
mtx_leave(foo);
.Ed
.Pp
While this is
.Fa not :
.Bd -literal -offset indent
mtx_enter(foo);
mtx_enter(bar);
mtx_leave(foo);
mtx_leave(bar);
.Ed
