.\"     $OpenBSD: printf.9,v 1.2 1999/09/22 03:16:47 csapuntz Exp $
.\"     $NetBSD: kprintf.9,v 1.6 1999/03/16 00:40:47 garbled Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1998 The NetBSD Foundation, Inc.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to The NetBSD Foundation
.\" by Jeremy Cooper.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"        This product includes software developed by the NetBSD
.\"        Foundation, Inc. and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of The NetBSD Foundation nor the names of its
.\"    contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived
.\"    from this software without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE NETBSD FOUNDATION, INC. AND CONTRIBUTORS
.\" ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED
.\" TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
.\" PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE FOUNDATION OR CONTRIBUTORS 
.\" BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
.\" INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
.\" CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
.\" POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd Sep 1, 1998
.Dt PRINTF 9
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm printf , 
.Nm sprintf , 
.Nm vprintf, 
.Nm uprintf, 
.Nm ttyprintf, 
.Nm db_printf
.Nd kernel formatted output conversion
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Fd #include <sys/types.h>
.Fd #include <sys/systm.h>
.Ft void
.Fo "printf"
.Fa "const char *format"
.Fa "..."
.Fc
.Ft int
.Fo "sprintf"
.Fa "char *buf"
.Fa "const char *format"
.Fa "..."
.Fc
.Ft void
.Fo "vprintf"
.Fa "const char *format"
.Fa "va_list ap"
.Fc
.Ft void
.Fo "uprintf"
.Fa "const char *format"
.Fa "..."
.Fc
.Ft void
.Fo "ttyprintf"
.Fa "struct tty *tty"
.Fa "const char *format"
.Fa "..."
.Fc
.Ft void
.Fn db_printf "const char *format" ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn printf ,
.Fn sprintf ,
.Fn vprintf ,
.Fn uprintf ,
.Fn ttyprintf ,
and 
.Fn db_printf
functions allow the kernel to send formatted messages to various output
devices.
The functions
.Fn printf
and
.Fn vprintf
send formatted strings to the system console and to the system log.
The functions
.Fn uprintf
and
.Fn ttyprintf
send formatted strings to the current process's controlling tty and a specific
tty,
respectively.
The function
.Fn db_printf
sends formatted strings to the ddb console, and is only used to implement
.Xr ddb 4 .
.Pp
Since each of these kernel functions is a variant of its user space
counterpart,
this page describes only the differences between the user space and kernel
versions. Refer to
.Xr printf 3
for functional details.
.Ss FORMAT OPTIONS
The kernel functions don't support any floating point formatting
specifiers.  In addition to other formatting specifiers common with the user 
space functions, the kernel functions accept the following format specifiers
in the format string
.Fa format :
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width "\e177"
.It Li %b
Bit field expansion.
This format specifier is useful for decoding bit fields in device registers.
It displays an integer using a specified radix
.Pq base
and an interpretation of
the bits within that integer as though they were flags.
It requires two arguments from the argument vector, the first argument being 
the bit field to be decoded
.Pq "as an integer"
and the second being a decoding directive string.
.Pp
The decoding directive string describes how the bitfield is to be interpreted
and displayed.
The first character of the string is a binary character representation of the
output numeral base in which the bitfield will be printed before it is decoded.
Recognized radix values
.Pq "in C escape-character format"
are
.Li \e10
.Pq octal ,
.Li \e12
.Pq decimal ,
and
.Li \e20
.Pq hexadecimal .
.Pp
The remaining characters in the decoding directive string are interpreted as a
list of bit-position\(endescription pairs.
A bit-position\(endescription pair begins with a binary character value
that represents the position of the bit being described.
A bit position value of one describes the least significant bit.
Whereas a position value of 32
.Pq "octal 40, hexadecimal 20, the ASCII space character"
describes the most significant bit.
.Pp
The remaining characters in a bit-position\(endescription pair are the
characters to print should the bit being described be set.
Description strings are delimited by the next bit position value character
encountered
.Pq "distinguishable by its value being \(<= 32" ,
or the end of the decoding directive string itself.
.It Li %:
Inline format continuation.
This format specifier allows for recursive formatted output.
Its argument is the new formatting string to obey and the argument which
follows it is a
.Va va_list
argument vector from which to obtain the data to be formatted.
.It Li %r
Displays an integer using the current
.Tn DDB
radix.
This non-standard interpretation of 
.Li %r
is only available to
.Fn db_printf .
.It Li %z
Displays a signed integer using the C-style hexadecimal constant format.
This format specifier is only available to
.Fn db_printf .
.El
.Sh RETURN VALUES
The
.Fn sprintf
function returns the number of characters it placed in the buffer
.Fa buf .
.Sh EXAMPLES
Use of the
.Li %b
format specifier for decoding device registers.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
printf("reg=%b\en", 3, "\e10\e2BITTWO\e1BITONE")
\(rA "reg=3<BITTWO,BITONE>"

printf("enablereg=%b\en", 0xe860,
       "\e20\ex10NOTBOOT\ex0fFPP\ex0eSDVMA\ex0cVIDEO"
       "\ex0bLORES\ex0aFPA\ex09DIAG\ex07CACHE"
       "\ex06IOCACHE\ex05LOOPBACK\ex04DBGCACHE")
\(rA "enablereg=e860<NOTBOOT,FPP,SDVMA,VIDEO,CACHE,IOCACHE>"
.Ed
.Pp
Use of the
.Li %:
format specifier for recursive formatting.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
void
bail(char *fmt, ...)
{
        va_list ap;
        va_start (ap, fmt);
        printf("bailing out: %:\en", fmt, ap);
        va_end(ap);
}

bail("descriptor %d is invalid.", 5)
\(rA "bailing out: descriptor 5 is invalid"
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.\" The following page has not been written, but I am including a cross-
.\" reference to it in the hopes that it will inspire someone to write it.
.Xr revoke 2 ,
.Xr printf 3 ,
.Xr ddb 4 ,
.Xr log 9 ,
.Xr tprintf 9
.Sh CODE REFERENCES
.Pa sys/kern/subr_prf.c
.Sh LIMITATIONS
The
.Li %b
format specifier cannot be used to decode integers greater than 32 bits in
size.
