.\"     $OpenBSD: rtable_add.9,v 1.1 2014/03/18 09:01:11 mpi Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2011 Bret S. Lambert <blambert@openbsd.org>
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: March 18 2014 $
.Dt RTABLE_ADD 9
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm rtable_add ,
.Nm rtable_exists ,
.Nm rtable_l2 ,
.Nm rtable_l2set
.Nd routing tables and routing domains interface
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In net/route.h
.Ft int
.Fn rtable_add "u_int id"
.Ft int
.Fn rtable_exists "u_int id"
.Ft u_int
.Fn rtable_l2 "u_int id"
.Ft void
.Fn rtable_l2set "u_int id" "u_int parent"
.Ft struct radix_node_head *
.Fn rt_gettable "sa_family_t af" "u_int id"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Routing tables contain layer 2 and 3 forwarding information.
Each address family in use will have its own routing table.
Routing domains are a way of logically segmenting a router among multiple
networks and may contain more than one routing table.
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fn rtable_exists "u_int id"
Return
.Fa 1
if table with ID
.Fa id
exists,
.Fa 0
otherwise.
.It Fn rtable_add "u_int id"
Add table with ID of
.Fa id
to routing domain
.Fa 0 .
.It Fn rtable_l2 "u_int id"
Get the routing domain of table with ID of
.Fa id .
.It Fn rtable_l2set "u_int id" "u_int parent"
Place table with ID of
.Fa id
under the routing domain with ID of
.Fa parent .
.El
.Sh RETURN VALUES
.Fn rtable_add
may fail with:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width Er -compact
.It Bq Er EEXIST
A table with ID of
.Fa id
already exists.
.It Bq Er ENOMEM
Memory could not be allocated to extend the list of routing domains.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr route 4 ,
.Xr route 8
