.\"	$OpenBSD: sensor_add.9,v 1.3 2006/10/10 14:07:56 dlg Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2006 Michael Knudsen <mk@openbsd.org>
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. The name of the author may not be used to endorse or promote products
.\"    derived from this software without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES,
.\" INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY
.\" AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL,
.\" EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL  DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
.\" PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS;
.\" OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY,
.\" WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR
.\" OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF
.\" ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd April 23, 2006
.Dt SENSOR_ADD 9
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm sensor_add ,
.Nm sensor_del ,
.Nm sensor_get ,
.Nm sensor_task_register ,
.Nm sensor_task_unregister
.Nd sensor framework
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Fd #include <sys/sensors.h>
.Ft void
.Fn "sensor_add" "struct sensor *sens"
.Ft void
.Fn "sensor_del" "struct sensor *sens"
.Ft struct sensor
.Fn "*sensor_get" "int num"
.Ft int
.Fn "sensor_task_register" "void *arg" "void (*func)(void *)" "int period"
.Ft void
.Fn "sensor_task_unregister" "void *arg"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm sensor
framework API provides a mechanism to manipulate the sensor framework
available under the
.Va hw.sensors
.Xr sysctl 8 .
.Pp
.Fn sensor_add
adds a sensor specified by the
.Pa sens
argument.
.Fn sensor_del
removes a sensor previously added by
.Fn sensor_add .
Both
.Fn sensor_add
and
.Fn sensor_del
take an argument of a pointer to a
.Vt struct sensor ,
defined in
.Aq Pa sys/sensors.h ,
as:
.Bd -literal
struct sensor {
	SLIST_ENTRY(sensor) list;
	int num;			/* sensor number */
	char device[16];		/* device name */
	enum sensor_type type;		/* sensor type */
	char desc[32];			/* sensor description */
	int64_t value;			/* current value */
	u_int rfact;			/* resistor factor */
	enum sensor_status status;	/* sensor status */
	int flags;			/* sensor flags */
	struct timeval tv;		/* sensor value last change time */
};
.Ed
.Pp
.Fn sensor_get
takes an index parameter and returns a pointer to the corresponding
.Vt struct sensor ,
or
.Dv NULL
if no such sensor exists.
.Pp
Drivers are responsible for retrieving, interpreting, and normalising
sensor values and updating the sensor struct periodically.
If the driver needs process context, for example to sleep, it can
register a task with the sensor framework.
.Pp
.Fn sensor_task_register
is used to register a periodic task to update sensors.
The
.Fa func
argument is a pointer to the function to run with an interval of
.Fa period
seconds.
The
.Fa arg
parameter is the argument given to the
.Fa func
function.
The
.Fn sensor_task_unregister
removes all tasks previously registered with
.Fn sensor_task_register
with an argument of
.Fa arg .
.Pp
All the functions in the sensor framework must be called during
.Xr autoconf 9
or from a process context.
Additionally,
.Fn sensor_task_unregister
must not be called while a function previously registered with
.Fn sensor_task_register
is running.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr sysctl 8 ,
.Xr autoconf 9
.Sh HISTORY
The sensor framework was written by
.An Alexander Yurchenko Aq grange@openbsd.org
and first appeared in
.Ox 3.4 .
.An David Gwynne Aq dlg@openbsd.org
later extended it for
.Ox 3.8 .
