.\"	$OpenBSD: sigio_init.9,v 1.3 2018/11/12 18:27:31 jmc Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2018 Visa Hankala
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: November 12 2018 $
.Dt SIGIO_INIT 9
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm sigio_init ,
.Nm sigio_free ,
.Nm sigio_copy ,
.Nm sigio_setown ,
.Nm sigio_getown
.Nd asynchronous IO signal API
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In sys/sigio.h
.Ft void
.Fn "sigio_init" "struct sigio_ref *sir"
.Ft void
.Fn "sigio_free" "struct sigio_ref *sir"
.Ft void
.Fn "sigio_copy" "struct sigio_ref *dst" "struct sigio_ref *src"
.Ft int
.Fn "sigio_setown" "struct sigio_ref *sir" "pid_t pgid"
.Ft pid_t
.Fn "sigio_getown" "struct sigio_ref *sir"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The asynchronous IO signal API provides a means to manage signal registrations.
It associates a process or process group with a signal source.
The association is revoked automatically when the process or process group
is deleted.
.Pp
.Fn sigio_init
initializes the sigio reference
.Fa sir .
.Pp
.Fn sigio_free
clears any process or process group associated with reference
.Fa sir .
.Pp
.Fn sigio_copy
copies registration from reference
.Fa src
to reference
.Fa dst .
.Pp
.Fn sigio_setown
associates the reference
.Fa sir
with a process or process group.
If
.Fa pgid
is positive, the ID is taken as a process ID.
If
.Fa pgid
is negative, the ID is taken as a process group ID.
The reference
.Fa sir
is cleared if
.Fa pgid
is zero.
.Pp
When
.Fn sigio_setown
is called, the invoking process' credentials are stored in the reference.
These credentials are checked when the reference is used with
.Xr pgsigio 9 .
.Pp
.Fn sigio_getown
returns the ID of the process or process group associated with the reference
.Fa sir .
.Sh CONTEXT
.Fn sigio_init ,
.Fn sigio_free ,
.Fn sigio_copy ,
.Fn sigio_setown
and
.Fn sigio_getown
can be called during autoconf, or from process context.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
.Fn sigio_setown
returns 0 on success.
Otherwise, the following error values are returned:
.Bl -tag -width [EPERM]
.It Bq Er EPERM
The invoking process belongs to another session than the process
or process group
.Fa pgid .
.It Bq Er ESRCH
The process or process group
.Fa pgid
does not exist.
.It Bq Er ESRCH
The process
.Fa pgid
is exiting.
.El
.Pp
The function
.Fn sigio_getown
returns the ID of the process or process group associated with reference
.Fa sir ,
or zero if no signal target has been registered.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr pgsigio 9
.Sh HISTORY
The sigio routines were adapted from
.Fx
and first appeared in
.Ox 6.5 .
