.\"	$OpenBSD: uvm_km_alloc.9,v 1.2 2019/12/05 15:58:27 jmc Exp $
.\"	$NetBSD: uvm.9,v 1.14 2000/06/29 06:08:44 mrg Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1998 Matthew R. Green
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING,
.\" BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
.\" LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED
.\" AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY,
.\" OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: December 5 2019 $
.Dt UVM_KM_ALLOC 9
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm uvm_km_alloc ,
.Nm uvm_km_zalloc ,
.Nm uvm_km_alloc1 ,
.Nm uvm_km_kmemalloc ,
.Nm uvm_km_valloc ,
.Nm uvm_km_valloc_wait ,
.Nm uvm_km_suballoc ,
.Nm uvm_km_free ,
.Nm uvm_km_free_wakeup
.Nd raw kernel memory or address space allocator
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In sys/param.h
.In uvm/uvm.h
.Ft vaddr_t
.Fn uvm_km_alloc "vm_map_t map" "vsize_t size"
.Ft vaddr_t
.Fn uvm_km_zalloc "vm_map_t map" "vsize_t size"
.Ft vaddr_t
.Fn uvm_km_alloc1 "vm_map_t map" "vsize_t size" "vsize_t align" "boolean_t zeroit"
.Ft vaddr_t
.Fn uvm_km_kmemalloc "vm_map_t map" "struct uvm_object *obj" "vsize_t size" "int flags"
.Ft vaddr_t
.Fn uvm_km_valloc "vm_map_t map" "vsize_t size"
.Ft vaddr_t
.Fn uvm_km_valloc_wait "vm_map_t map" "vsize_t size"
.Ft struct vm_map *
.Fn uvm_km_suballoc "vm_map_t map" "vaddr_t *min" "vaddr_t *max " "vsize_t size" "int flags" "boolean_t fixed" "vm_map_t submap"
.Ft void
.Fn uvm_km_free "vm_map_t map" "vaddr_t addr" "vsize_t size"
.Ft void
.Fn uvm_km_free_wakeup "vm_map_t map" "vaddr_t addr" "vsize_t size"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn uvm_km_alloc
and
.Fn uvm_km_zalloc
functions allocate
.Fa size
bytes of wired kernel memory in map
.Fa map .
In addition to allocation,
.Fn uvm_km_zalloc
zeros the memory.
Both of these functions are defined as macros in terms of
.Fn uvm_km_alloc1 ,
and should almost always be used in preference to
.Fn uvm_km_alloc1 .
.Pp
The
.Fn uvm_km_alloc1
function allocates and returns
.Fa size
bytes of wired memory in the kernel map aligned to the
.Fa align
boundary, zeroing the memory if the
.Fa zeroit
argument is non-zero.
.Pp
The
.Fn uvm_km_kmemalloc
function allocates and returns
.Fa size
bytes of wired kernel memory into
.Fa obj .
The flags can be any of:
.Bd -literal
#define UVM_KMF_NOWAIT  0x1                     /* matches M_NOWAIT */
#define UVM_KMF_VALLOC  0x2                     /* allocate VA only */
#define UVM_KMF_TRYLOCK UVM_FLAG_TRYLOCK        /* try locking only */
.Ed
.Pp
The
.Dv UVM_KMF_NOWAIT
flag causes
.Fn uvm_km_kmemalloc
to return immediately if no memory is available.
.Dv UVM_KMF_VALLOC
causes no pages to be allocated, only a virtual address.
.Dv UVM_KMF_TRYLOCK
causes
.Fn uvm_km_kmemalloc
to only try and not sleep when locking maps.
.Pp
The
.Fn uvm_km_valloc
and
.Fn uvm_km_valloc_wait
functions return a newly allocated zero-filled address in the kernel map of size
.Fa size .
.Fn uvm_km_valloc_wait
will also wait for kernel memory to become available, if there is a
memory shortage.
.Pp
The
.Fn uvm_km_suballoc
function allocates submap (with the specified
.Fa flags ,
as described above) from
.Fa map ,
creating a new map if
.Fa submap
is
.Dv NULL .
The addresses of the submap can be specified exactly by setting the
.Fa fixed
argument to non-zero, which causes the
.Fa min
argument to specify the beginning of the address in the submap.
If
.Fa fixed
is zero, any address of size
.Fa size
will be allocated from
.Fa map
and the start and end addresses returned in
.Fa min
and
.Fa max .
.Pp
The
.Fn uvm_km_free
and
.Fn uvm_km_free_wakeup
functions free
.Fa size
bytes of memory in the kernel map, starting at address
.Fa addr .
.Fn uvm_km_free_wakeup
calls
.Fn wakeup
on the map before unlocking the map.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr km_alloc 9
