.\"	$OpenBSD: wdc.9,v 1.1 1999/09/22 03:16:47 csapuntz Exp $
.\"	$NetBSD: wdc.9,v 1.3 1999/03/16 00:40:48 garbled Exp $

.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1998 Manuel Bouyer.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"

.Dd October 18, 1998
.Dt wdc 9
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm wdc
.Nd machine-indepedant IDE/ATAPI driver
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Fd #include <dev/ata/atavar.h>
.Fd #include <sys/dev/ic/wdcvar.h>
.Ft int
.Fn wdcprobe "struct channel_softc * chp"
.Ft void
.Fn wdcattach "struct channel_softc * chp"
.Sh description
The
.Nm
driver provides the machine independant core functions for driving IDE
devices.
IDE devices-specific drivers (
.Nm wd
or
.Nm atapibus )
will use services provided by
.Nm wdc .
.Pp
The machine-dependant bus front-end provides informations to
.Nm
vith the 
.Va wdc_softc
and
.Va channel_softc
structures.
The first one defines global controller properties, and the second contain
per-channel informations.
.Nm
returns informations about the attached devices in the
.Va ata_drive_datas
structure.
.Bd -literal
struct wdc_softc { /* Per controller state */
        struct device sc_dev;
        int           cap;
#define WDC_CAPABILITY_DATA16 0x0001    
#define WDC_CAPABILITY_DATA32 0x0002    
#define WDC_CAPABILITY_MODE   0x0004    
#define WDC_CAPABILITY_DMA    0x0008    
#define WDC_CAPABILITY_UDMA   0x0010    
#define WDC_CAPABILITY_HWLOCK 0x0020    
#define WDC_CAPABILITY_ATA_NOSTREAM 0x0040 
#define WDC_CAPABILITY_ATAPI_NOSTREAM 0x0080 
#define WDC_CAPABILITY_NO_EXTRA_RESETS 0x0100 
        u_int8_t      pio_mode; 
        u_int8_t      dma_mode; 
        int nchannels;  
        struct channel_softc *channels;

        void            *dma_arg;
        int            (*dma_init) __P((void *, int, int, void *, size_t,
        void           (*dma_start) __P((void *, int, int, int));
        int            (*dma_finish) __P((void *, int, int, int));
#define WDC_DMA_READ 0x01
#define WDC_DMA_POLL 0x02

        int            (*claim_hw) __P((void *, int));
        void            (*free_hw) __P((void *));
};

struct channel_softc { /* Per channel data */
        int channel;
        struct wdc_softc *wdc;
        bus_space_tag_t       cmd_iot;
        bus_space_handle_t    cmd_ioh;
        bus_space_tag_t       ctl_iot;
        bus_space_handle_t    ctl_ioh;
        bus_space_tag_t       data32iot;
        bus_space_handle_t    data32ioh;
        int ch_flags;
#define WDCF_ACTIVE   0x01      
#define WDCF_IRQ_WAIT 0x10      
        u_int8_t ch_status;
        u_int8_t ch_error; 
        struct ata_drive_datas ch_drive[2];
        struct channel_queue *ch_queue;
};

struct ata_drive_datas {
    u_int8_t drive;
    u_int8_t drive_flags;
#define DRIVE_ATA   0x01
#define DRIVE_ATAPI 0x02
#define DRIVE (DRIVE_ATA|DRIVE_ATAPI)
#define DRIVE_CAP32 0x04
#define DRIVE_DMA   0x08
#define DRIVE_UDMA  0x10
#define DRIVE_MODE 0x20
    u_int8_t PIO_mode;
    u_int8_t DMA_mode;
    u_int8_t UDMA_mode;
    u_int8_t state;

    struct device *drv_softc;
    void* chnl_softc;
};

.Ed

The bus front-end needs to fill in the following elements of
.Va wdc_softc :
.Bl -tag -compact -width "dma_finish" -offset "xxxx"
.It cap
supports one or more of the WDC_CAPABILITY flags
.It nchannels
number of  channels supported by this controller
.It channels
array of
.Va struct channel_softc
of size
.Va nchannels
properly initialised
.El
The following elements are optional:
.Bl -tag -compact -width "dma_finish" -offset "xxxx"
.It pio_mode
.It dma_mode
.It dma_arg
.It dma_init
.It dma_start
.It dma_finish
.It claim_hw
.It free_hw
.El
.Pp
The
.Va WDC_CAPABILITY_DATA16
and
.Va WDC_CAPABILITY_DATA32
flags informs
.Nm
wether the controller supports 16 and 32 bits I/O accesses on the data port.
If both are set, a test will be done for each drive using the ATA or
ATAPI IDENTIFY command, to automatically select the working mode.
.Pp
The
.Va WDC_CAPABILITY_DMA
and
.Va WDC_CAPABILITY_UDMA
flags are set for controllers supporting the DMA and Utra-DMA modes.
The bus front-end needs to provide the
.Va dma_init ,
.Va dma_start
and
.Va dma_finish
functions.
.Va dma_init
is called just before issuing a DMA command to the IDE device.
The arguments are, respectively:
.Va dma_arg ,
the channel number, the drive number on this channel,
the virtual address of the DMA buffer, the size of the transfert, and the
.Va WDC_DMA
flags.
.Va dma_start
is called just after issuing a DMA command to the IDE device.
The arguments are, respectively:
.Va dma_arg ,
the channel number, the drive number on this channel, and the
.Va WDC_DMA
flags.
.Va dma_finish
is called once the transfert is complete.
The arguments are, respectively:
.Va dma_arg ,
the channel number, the drive number on this channel, and the
.Va WDC_DMA
flags.
.Va WDC_DMA_READ
indicates the direction of the data transfert, and
.Va WDC_DMA_POLL
indicates if the transfert will use (or used) interrupts.
.Pp
The
.Va WDC_CAPABILITY_MODE
flag means that the bus front-end can program the PIO and DMA modes, so
.Nm
needs to provide back the supported modes for each drives, and set the drives
modes.
The
.Va pio_mode
and
.Va dma_mode
needs to be set to the hightest PIO and DMA mode supported.
If
.Va WDC_CAPABILITY_UDMA
is set, then
.Va dma_mode 
must be set to the hightest Ultra-DMA mode supported.
If
.Va WDC_CAPABILITY_MODE
is not set,
.Nm
will not attempt to change the current drives settings, assuming the host's
firmware has done it rigth.
.Pp
The
.Va WDC_CAPABILITY_HWLOCK
flag is set for controllers needing hardware looking before access to the
I/O ports.
If this flag is set, the bus front-end needs to provide the
.Va claim_hw
and
.Va free_hw
functions. 
.Va claim_hw
will be called when the driver wants to access the controller ports.
The second parameter is set to 1 when it is possible to sleep wainting
for the lock, 0 otherwise.
It should return 1 when access has been granted, 0 otherwise.
When access has not been granted and sleep is not allowed, the bus
front-end shall call
.Va wdcrestart()
with the first argument passed to
.Va claim_hw
as argument.
This arguments will also be the one passed to 
.Va free_hw.
This function is called once the transfert is complete, so that the lock can
be released.
.Pp
Access to the data port are done by using the bus_space stream functions,
unless the
.Va WDC_CAPABILITY_ATA_NOSTREAM
or
.Va WDC_CAPABILITY_ATAPI_NOSTREAM
flags are set.
This should not be used, unless the data bus is not wired properly (which
seems common on big-endian systems), and byte-order needs to be preserved
for compatibility with the host's firmware.
Also note that the IDE bus is a little-endian bus, so the bus_space
functions used for the bus_space tag passed in the 
.Va channel_softc
have to do the apropriate byte-swapping for big-endian systems.
.Pp
.Va WDC_CAPABILITY_NO_EXTRA_RESETS
avoid the controller reset at the end of the disks probe.
This reset is needed for some controllers, and cause problems with some
others.
.Pp
The bus front-end needs to fill in the following
elements of
.Va channel_softc :
.Bl -tag -compact -width "dma_finish" -offset "xxxx"
.It channel
The channel number on the controller
.It wdc
A pointer to the controller's wdc_softc
.It cmd_iot, cmd_ioh
Bus-space tag and handle for access to the command block registers (which
includes the 16-bit data port)
.It ctl_iot, ctl_ioh
Bus-space tag and handle for access to the control block registers
.It ch_queue
A pointer to a
.Va struct channel_queue .
This will hold the queues of outstanding commands for this controller.
.El
The following elements are optional:
.Bl -tag -compact -width "dma_finish" -offset "xxxx"
.It data32iot, data32ioh
Bus-space tag and handle for 32-bit data accesses.
Only needed if
.Va WDC_CAPABILITY_DATA32
is set in the controller's
.Va wdc_softc .
.El
.Pp
.Va ch_queue
can point to a common
.Va struct channel_queue
if the controller doesn't support concurent access to his different channels.
If each channels are independant, it his recommended that each channel have
his own
.Va ch_queue .
Better performances will result.
.Pp
The bus-specific front-end can use the
.Va wdcprobe()
function, with a properly inithialised
.Va struct channel_softc
as argument (
.Va wdc
can be set to NULL.
This allows
.Va wdcprobe
to be easily used in bus front-end probe functions).
This function will return an integer where bit 0 will be set if the master
device has been found, and 1 if the slave device has been found.
.Pp
The bus-specific's attach function has to call
.Va wdcattach()
for each channels, with a pointer to a properly initialised
.Va channel softc
as argument.
This will probe devices attached to the IDE channel and attach them.
Once this function returns, the
.Va ch_drive
array of the
.Va channel_softc
will contains the drive's capabilities.
This can be used to properly initialise the controller's mode, or disable a
channel without drives.
.Pp
The elements of interest in
.Va ata_drive_datas
for a bus front-end are:
.Bl -tag -compact -width "dma_finish" -offset "xxxx"
.It drive
The drive number
.It drive_flags
Flags indicating the drive capabilities.
A null
.Va drive_flags
indicate either that no drive are here, or that no driver was
found for this device.
.It PIO_mode, DMA_mode, UDMA_mode
the hightest supported modes for this drive compatible with the controller's
capabilities.
Needs to be reset to the mode to use by the drive, if known.
.It drv_softc
A pointer to the drive's softc.
Can be used to print the drive's name.
.El
.Pp
.Va drive_flags
handles the following flags:
.Bl -tag -compact -width "dma_finish" -offset "xxxx"
.It DRIVE_ATA, DRIVE_ATAPI
Gives the drive type, if any.
The shortcut DRIVE can be used to just test the presence/absence of a drive.
.It DRIVE_CAP32
This drive works with 32-bit data I/O.
.It DRIVE_DMA
This drive supports DMA
.It DRIVE_UDMA
This drive supports Ultra-DMA
.It DRIVE_MODE
This drive properly reported its PIO and DMA mode.
.El
.Pp
Once the controller has been initialised, it has to reset the
.Va DRIVE_DMA
and
.Va DRIVE_UDMA ,
as well as the values of
.Va PIO_mode ,
.Va DMA_mode
and
.Va  UDMA_mode
if the modes to be used are not hightest ones supported by the drive.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr wdc 4
.Xr bus_space 9
.Sh CODE REFERENCES
The wdc core functions are implemented in
.Pa sys/dev/ic/wdc.c .
Low-level ATA and ATAPI support is provided by
.Pa sys/dev/ata_wdc.c
and
.Pa sys/dev/scsipi/atapi_wdc.c
respectively.
.Pp
An example of simple bus front-end can be found in
.Pa sys/dev/isapnp/wdc_isapnp.c .
A more complex one, with multiple channels and bus-master DMA support is
.Pa sys/dev/pci/pciide.c .
.Pa sys/arch/atari/dev/wdc_mb.c
makes use of hardware locking, and also provides an example of bus-front
end for a big-endian system, which needs byte-swapping bus_space functions.
