.\"	$OpenBSD: ie.4,v 1.2 2003/08/08 09:29:24 miod Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2003 Paul Weissmann
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd May 14, 2003
.Dt IE 4 mvme88k
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm ie
.Nd Intel i82596CA LAN coprocessor
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Cd "ie0 at pcctwo0 offset 0x46000 ipl 1"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
interface provides access to the 10 Mb/s
.Tn Ethernet
network via the
.Tn Intel
i82596CA 32-bit
Local Area Network Coprocessor for
.Tn Ethernet .
.Pp
Each of the host's network addresses
is specified at boot time with an
.Dv SIOCSIFADDR
.Xr ioctl 2 .
The
.Nm
interface employs the address resolution protocol described in
.Xr arp 4
to dynamically map between Internet and
.Tn Ethernet
addresses on the local network.
.Pp
The i82596CA chip is integrated on both the
.Tn MVME187
and
.Tn MVME197
Single-Board Computers.
The available external connector depends on the P2 converter board.
In most cases either a BNC or AUI connector is provided.
.Pp
By default, the system will select the media type automatically, but the
.Xr ifconfig 8
command can be used to force the media selection.
The media types are shown below:
.Bl -tag -width "media autoselect" -offset indent
.It media autoselect
Attempt to autoselect the media type (default)
.It media 10base5
Use the AUI connector
.It media 10base2
Use the BNC connector
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr arp 4 ,
.Xr ifmedia 4 ,
.Xr inet 4 ,
.Xr intro 4 ,
.Xr netintro 4 ,
.Xr pcctwo 4 ,
.Xr hostname.if 5 ,
.Xr ifconfig 8
.Rs
.%T 82596CA High-Performance 32-bit Local Area Network Coprocessor
.%Q Intel
.Re
