.\"	$OpenBSD: le.4,v 1.10 2011/09/03 22:59:07 jmc Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2003 Paul Weissmann
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: September 3 2011 $
.Dt LE 4 mvme88k
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm le
.Nd MVME376 AMD LANCE Ethernet device
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Cd "le0 at vmes0 addr 0xffff1200 ipl 1"
.Cd "le1 at vmes0 addr 0xffff1400 ipl 1"
.Cd "le2 at vmes0 addr 0xffff1600 ipl 1"
.Cd "le3 at vmes0 addr 0xffff5400 ipl 1"
.Cd "le4 at vmes0 addr 0xffff5600 ipl 1"
.Cd "le5 at vmes0 addr 0xffffa400 ipl 1"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
driver provides access to the AMD 7990/LANCE-based Interphase 3207
.Sq Hawk ,
also sold as Motorola MVME376,
VME boards.
This in turn provides an interface to the
.Tn Ethernet
network.
.Sh HARDWARE CONFIGURATION
The card's base address
.Po
matching the
.Em addr
locator on the configuration line
.Pc
is defined through three sets of DIP switches,
.Dq SW1
and
.Dq SW2 ,
located in the middle of the board, near the space between the two
VME connectors, and
.Dq SW3 ,
closer to the AM7990DC chip at the bottom edge.
.Pp
The only supported configurations are:
.Bl -column "xxxxxxxx" "xxxxxxxx" "xxxxxxxx" "0xffffffff" -offset indent
.It Sy SW1 Ta Sy SW2 Ta Sy SW3 Ta Sy Address
.It Li "UUU_UU_U" Ta "U__U____" Ta "______U_" Ta "0xffff1200"
.It Li "UUU_U_UU" Ta "U__U_U__" Ta "______U_" Ta "0xffff1400"
.It Li "UUU_U__U" Ta "U__UU___" Ta "______U_" Ta "0xffff1600"
.It Li "U_U_U_UU" Ta "U__UUU__" Ta "______U_" Ta "0xffff5400"
.It Li "U_U_U__U" Ta "U_U_____" Ta "______U_" Ta "0xffff5600"
.It Li "_U_UU_UU" Ta "U_U__U__" Ta "______U_" Ta "0xffffa400"
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr arp 4 ,
.Xr inet 4 ,
.Xr intro 4 ,
.Xr netintro 4 ,
.Xr vme 4 ,
.Xr hostname.if 5 ,
.Xr ifconfig 8
