.\"	$OpenBSD: nvram.4,v 1.1 2013/05/23 21:20:48 miod Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2013 Miodrag Vallat.
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: May 23 2013 $
.Dt NVRAM 4 mvme88k
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm nvram
.Nd Mostek MK48T0x battery-backed realtime clock
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Cd "nvram0  at pcctwo0 offset 0xc0000" Pq MVME1x7
.Cd "nvram0  at syscon0 offset 0x80000" Pq MVME188
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
driver provides support for the
Mostek MK48T02
.Pq on MVME188
or MK48T08
.Pq on MVME1x7
realtime clocks chips.
.Pp
In addition to the clock itself, these chips embed 2KB
.Pq MK48T02
or 8KB
.Pq MK48T08
of battery-backed memory, which is accessible through the special
.Pa /dev/nvram0
file.
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width Pa -compact
.It Pa /dev/nvram0
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr intro 4 ,
.Xr pcctwo 4 ,
.Xr syscon 4
.Sh CAVEATS
The last 8 bytes of the battery-backed memory contains the realtime clock
registers.
Writing to these locations will interfere with proper clock operation.
.Pp
The second half of the battery-backed memory (including the clock registers)
is reserved by Motorola for use by the BUG firmware to store its configuration
data.
The
.Nm
driver does not prevent access to this reserved part.
